
                        TRADING JEFF AND HIS DOG

                          _BY JIM KJELGAARD_


    _DODD, MEAD & COMPANY, NEW YORK, 1956_

    Â© 1956 by Jim Kjelgaard

    All rights reserved

    No part of this book may be reproduced in any form
    without permission in writing from the publisher

    Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 56-5246
    Printed in the United States of America




                        _For
    Margaret Mary, John, Jim, Frank, and Barbara Dresen_





CONTENTS


       1. THE MEETING                        1

       2. BAD LUCK                          18

       3. ESCAPE                            34

       4. THE CABIN                         50

       5. DAN                               65

       6. VISITOR                           79

       7. GRANNY                            94

       8. ACKERTON                         110

       9. MIGHTY MISSION                   124

      10. BOMBSHELL                        137

      11. THE TALKING TREE                 154

      12. SURPRISE                         167

       *       *       *       *       *

_The characters, incidents and situations in this book are imaginary and
have no relation to any person or actual happening._

       *       *       *       *       *




1. THE MEETING


When the dog came to the weed-grown border of the clearing, he stopped.
Then, knowing that his back could be seen over the weeds, he slunk down
so that his belly scraped the earth. He was tense and quivering, and his
eyes bore a haunted look. But there was nothing craven in them and
little fear. In all his life the dog had never feared anything except
the terrible torment that beset him now.

He was of no recognizable breed, though all of his ancestors had been
large dogs. There was a hint of staghound in his massive head and in his
carriage, and somewhere along the way he had acquired a trace of Great
Dane. His fur was silky, like a collie's, and there was a suggestion of
bloodhound in his somewhat flabby jowls. Without purpose or plan, the
blood of all these breeds had mingled to produce this big mongrel.

He was so emaciated that slatted ribs showed even through his
burr-matted fur. Had he eaten as much as he wanted, he would have
weighed about a hundred and ten pounds, but he had had so little food
recently that he was fifteen pounds lighter. Intelligence glowed in his
eyes. But there was also something in them that verged on desperation.

He moved only his head and moved that slowly. This dog knew too much,
and had suffered too much, to let himself be seen until he had some idea
of what he was about. He was looking toward a big white farmhouse that
was surrounded by a grove of apple trees. A thin plume of blue smoke
rose from the chimney, and a pile of freshly-split wood lay in the yard.
Busy white hens wandered about. White and black cows and two brown
horses cropped grass in a pasture. Pigs grunted in their pen and a black
cat sunned itself on the door step.

The dog's attention returned to the man who was splitting more wood. He
was thin, dressed in faded blue jeans and a tan shirt, and the blows of
his axe echoed dully from the hills surrounding the farm house. He
worked slowly and methodically. The dog drank eagerly of his scent,
although he did not leave his cover, for behind him there was only a
trail of torment, abuse and real danger. He had been wandering for two
months and his path was a long one, but because it was also a twisted
one it had not taken him too far from the place he had left. He had been
in villages and towns, through farm lands and forest, and wherever he
met men he had been stoned or clubbed. Three times--twice by farmers and
once by a policeman--he had been shot at.

The dog could not know that this was partly because of his appearance
and size. He was big and he looked wild. Had he cared to do so, he could
have killed a man. But what none of his tormentors could know was that,
though the dog feared little, he was almost incapable of attacking a
human being. What nobody could know either was that, most of all, the
dog was in desperate need of someone to love.

Until two months ago, everything had been different. When the dog came
to live with Johnny Blazer, in the hills behind Smithville, he was so
young that it always seemed he must have begun life with Johnny. It was
a good life and he had never wanted any other.

Johnny's cabin was big, with a kitchen and combined living-dining room
on the first floor and the entire second floor given over to many bunks.
It was necessary to have a big cabin because, in season, Johnny both
guided and boarded hunters and fishermen. During the winter, he trapped
furs, and when there was nothing else to do he worked at odd jobs or
searched out and sold medicinal roots which he found in the hills. A
lean, tight-jawed woodsman in his late thirties, Johnny had been the
dog's revered master.

Because he was a dog, and thus incapable of grasping the more complex
facts, the great animal did not understand that life was not the wholly
carefree and happy one it seemed. He could sense that Johnny avoided the
Whitneys, who--at various places in the hills--lived much as Johnny did.
Because they were Johnny's enemies, it followed that the Whitneys must
be the dog's enemies too. But he had never understood what took place.

Johnny and the dog were strolling toward Smithville when a rifle cracked
and Johnny took three staggering steps to fall forward. While the dog
hovered anxiously near, his master tried and failed to get up. The dog
knew that the scent of Pete Whitney filled the air, but there was no
connection between Pete and the fact that Johnny Blazer lay wounded in
the road.

For an hour the dog worried beside Johnny, whining because he could not
help. Then a car happened along. The two men in it lifted Johnny into
the car and were off at high speed.

The dog tried to follow, but though he could run very fast, he could not
keep up with the car. Outdistanced, he panted back to the cabin because
he was sure that Johnny would return there, too. He waited a week, never
venturing far away and eating only what he could find or catch. Then he
set out to look for Johnny.

He'd gone first to Smithville and the first person he'd met there was
Pete Whitney. The dog slowed to a walk, watching Pete warily and
bristling. He saw no connection between any of Pete's actions and
Johnny's disappearance, but all the Whitneys were enemies. He leaped
aside when Pete aimed a swift kick at his groin, then turned with bared
fangs. Unarmed, Pete shrank back against a near-by building and the dog
went on.

The alarm was sounded; Johnny Blazer's dog had come into town and
threatened a person. For a while--Johnny had many friends in
Smithville--nothing was done. But after two days, the dog was considered
a menace. Mothers of small children became concerned for their safety.
The first act of most men, upon seeing the dog, was to pick up and hurl
any convenient missile.

The Smithville constable, Bill Ellis, reluctantly set out to kill the
animal. But two hours earlier, having satisfied himself that he would
not find Johnny in Smithville, the dog had left. What he could not
possibly know was that his master was dead and the official cause of his
death was, "Bullet wound inflicted by a person or persons unknown."

As the dog wandered, hope faded. He could not find Johnny. But the dog
had to have a master because he was unable to live without one, and now,
as he lay in the tall weeds, all the deep yearnings in his heart
concentrated on this man splitting wood.

He half rose, minded to walk out and meet him, but memory of the rocks
and clubs that had come his way was not an easy one to banish and he
settled down in the weeds again. Then an uncontrollable longing for
someone to love and someone to love him overcame everything else and he
left the weeds.

He walked with his tail drooping in a half circle down his rear, but he
was not abject because it was not in him to be so. One or more of his
many ancestors had bequeathed to him a great pride and a regal inner
sense, and though he would run when a club or brick was hurled at him,
he could never cringe. He carried his tail low because that was the way
he carried it naturally, like a collie or staghound.

The man, setting a chunk of wood against the splitting block, had his
back turned to the dog and did not at once see him. The dog waited,
unwilling to intrude until he was invited to do so. The man raised his
axe, brought it expertly down, and the wood split cleanly. He stooped to
pick up the two pieces and when he did he saw the dog.

"You!"

Catching up one of the chunks, he hurled it with deadly aim and intent.
But even as he did this, the huge animal started to run, so that instead
of striking him in the head, the chunk of wood struck his right
shoulder. The dog felt quick agony that subsided to searing pain as he
kept running. Twenty seconds later he heard a rifle blast, and the thump
of a leaden slug that plowed into the earth six inches to one side. The
rifle roared a second time, and a third. Then he was safe in the woods.

He slowed to a walk, knowing that he could not be seen now and his nose
informed him that there were no other men around. For the time being he
was in no danger, but he was heartsick. Again he had tried, in every way
he knew, to find someone whom he might love and who in turn might love
him. Once more his overtures had brought him only hurt.

The dog could not know that the farmer, seeing him suddenly, had been
too startled to think. When he was finally capable of coherent thought,
he decided that a wild, dangerous and doubtless rabid wolf had emerged
from the forest and that its only intention could be to prey upon the
locality's flocks and herds. Failing to bring it down with his rifle,
the farmer got hastily on the phone to mobilize his neighbors. Within
half an hour a posse was out.

However, its members were farmers and not hunters. The only hunting dogs
in the area were a few fox and coon hounds and some rabbit hounds, and
they refused to interest themselves in the supposed wolf's trail. But
there was also a pair of big cross-bred brindle bulls and they were
urged into the woods. An hour later the dog met this pair.

Coursing a little open glade, they appeared in front of him and as soon
as they saw him they stopped. The bulls weighed only about fifty pounds
each, but they had had many battles and they knew how to fight. Lifting
their lips in anticipatory grins, they closed in.

The dog waited, anger rising in his heart. He too knew how to fight. For
the barest fraction of a minute he gauged the bulls' advance, then he
attacked. He was not as swift as he ordinarily was because he had not
eaten enough. But with his staghound and collie lineage, he had
inherited all the fluid, rippling grace of such dogs. It was not his way
to bore in, to seek a hold and keep it, but to slash and slice. He
struck the first bull, cut it to the shoulder bone, and leaped clear
over his enemy before there could be a return thrust. He whirled to face
the second.

It came at him with a short, choppy gait, eyes half closed and mouth
open as it sought any hold at all. As soon as it was able to get one, it
would clamp its jaws and grind until the piece of flesh in its mouth was
torn out. Then it would get another hold, and another, and literally
tear its enemy apart.

The dog waited, as though he were about to meet the bull head on. But
when only inches separated them, he glided to one side, ducked to get
hold of a front leg, and used all his strength to throw the bull clear
over his head. He turned to meet the second bull that, recovering, had
come in to grab his thigh.

Twisting himself almost double, the dog slashed and bit and each time he
slashed fresh blood spurted from the brindle bull's hide. The dog opened
his huge mouth, clamped it over the bull's neck, and shook his adversary
back and forth.

The bulls had courage, but they were cross-breeds and not the fighting
bulls that will gladly die if they can take their enemy with them. They
staggered twenty feet off and faced the dog warily, as though seeking
some new way to attack him. He waited, ready for whatever they might
do, and when he finally limped away he did so with his head turned to
see if he was being followed.

He was not afraid to renew the battle, but he wanted most to be let
alone by this ugly pair. In spite of all the rebuffs and even physical
violence that he had met up with, however, he could not abandon the
driving urge that had sent him forth. He could not live without a
master. Somewhere and somehow he must find one.

He passed from settled country into forest where there was only an
occasional clearing. When two deer fled before him he gave halfhearted
chase. But his shoulder still hurt and the battle had wearied him. When
the deer outdistanced him, he stopped to eat a few mushrooms that grew
on a stump. They were tasteless fare, but they helped still the gnawing
in his belly. Near the edge of a pond, he found and ate a fish that had
been hurt in battle with a bigger fish, and after that he caught a
mouse. All together were mere tidbits, and the dog thought wistfully of
the delicious meals Johnny Blazer used to prepare for him.

Night had fallen when he stopped suddenly, his nose tickled by the
tantalizing odor of food. Mingled with it was the smell of wood smoke
and a man. The dog's nose informed him that there was a creek, and he
caught the faintly-acrid smell of cinders and steel that meant a
railroad. The dog slowed to a walk and went closer to verify with his
eyes what his nose had already told him.

There was a creek spanned by a railroad bridge. Beneath the bridge was a
small, bright fire over which, on a forked stick, hung a pot of
simmering coffee. Crouched beside the fire was a man, and because there
is a difference in the odors of young and old, the dog knew that this
was a young man.

The dog padded silently through tall, wild grass growing beside the
creek. He drooled at the odor of food, but because painful experience
had taught him to be very careful in all dealings with men, he did not
go any nearer. He licked his chops with a moist tongue and excitement
danced in his eyes. How he would love to be near that fire, partaking of
the food and the caresses of the young man!

But he had better be careful.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the same time that the dog met the farmer who hurled the block of
wood at him, Jeff Tarrant was walking down a dusty road that led into
the town of Cressman. Two days past his eighteenth birthday, his face
betrayed his youth. Healthy as sunshine, he walked with a spring in his
step and his head held high. His rather loose lips formed a grin that
seemed permanently fixed. His blue eyes sparked and a shock of curly red
hair that needed cutting tumbled on his head. Even if it were not for
the pack he carried, he would have commanded a second glance.

The pack, made of both canvas and leather and with straps at strategic
intervals, was huge. It began at Jeff's hip line, extended two inches
over the top of his head, and it was bulging. Across it, in black
letters as big as the pack would accommodate, was:

    TARRANT
    ENTERPRISES
    Ltd.

Jeff himself had designed the pack to fit his needs, and he had done the
lettering. It described him perfectly, for what nobody except Jeff knew
was that Tarrant Enterprises was limited to whatever might be in the
pack.

He walked cheerfully, for it was a cheerful day, and he gave thanks for
the sparsely-settled country and the little-traveled road on which he
found himself. In the first place, this was the only kind of country in
which Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., could flourish. Secondly, the day was
made for walking. When Jeff found himself on traveled roads, he was
forever being offered rides, and for the sake of both courtesy and good
business he always accepted. But there had been no rides today.

Descending a hill, Jeff looked down at a junction of two forested
valleys, up one of which a train was puffing. He looked at it closely,
while the smile in his eyes and that on his mouth seemed to grow a
little more pronounced. Railroad tracks meant towns somewhere, and the
sort of business Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., could do in towns depended
on circumstance.

Jeff sniffed deeply, for part of his success depended on an ability to
sense what lay ahead, just as a hunter must sense what is in the offing.
Now he had wood smoke in his nostrils, and he was not surprised when he
rounded an outjutting corner of the hill and saw a farm house.

Jeff whistled happily as he approached the house and knocked on the
front door, and he had the most gracious smile Tarrant Enterprises,
Ltd., could muster up for the woman who opened it.

"Good afternoon, ma'am. I represent Tarrant--"

"Don't want nothin'!" she rasped. "Never buy nothin' from peddlers!"

Hard work, loneliness and collapsed dreams had all left their marks, so
that she was almost as weather-beaten as the house. But Jeff saw at a
glance that the place was neat and clean, and since she did not close
the door, he entered, swung the pack from his back, and laid it on a
table.

"Get it off!" she scolded. "Don't want no dirty pack on my table! Don't
want nothin' from no peddler nohow!"

Jeff sniffed hungrily. A delicious incense, the mingled odors of roast
chicken and fresh-baked bread, blessed his nostrils. He said slowly and
with dignity,

"I am not a peddler, ma'am. I represent Tarrant--"

"Now, look! I just broke my parin' knife an' I got no time--"

"Ah!"

Like magic, and seemingly without visible motion, the pack opened. From
it Jeff took a paring knife with a gleaming blade and a shiny black
handle.

"Only seventeen cents, ma'am. Blade of finest steel and hilt of genuine
polished wood! Holds its edges and its temper, too! A lifetime knife!"

She looked at the knife, longing in her eyes. When she glanced again at
Jeff, she was not so hostile.

"Got no money," she admitted.

Jeff laughed. "I asked for none! Our conversation became so fascinating
that I had no chance to explain that I represent Tarrant Enterprises,
Ltd. We have long recognized the needs of people such as yourself,
people who prefer the refined quiet of country life to crowds and
cities. But country life, as you must know, is not without
inconveniences. Our only aim is to bring to the doors of people such as
yourself whatever may not be available."

Her eyes were suspicious. "You mean you're givin' me this knife?"

"Not at all, ma'am. Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., is always willing to
barter. _Umm!_ Is that roast chicken I smell?"

"I ain't tradin' you no roast chicken for no little knife!"

"Surely one small knife will not fill your needs?"

"Well, I could use some cinnamon sticks."

With the same magical ease, Jeff opened his pack and gracefully offered
a small parcel of cinnamon sticks.

"Cinnamon from Ceylon," he said, at the same time wondering if he did
not have cinnamon and tea confused. He went on, "The world's only pure
cinnamon, made available to Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., through special
sources."

"My," she was impressed. "What else do you have?"

Jeff said, in the same tone that a department store manager would have
used, "What do you wish, ma'am?"

She eyed the pack. "You wouldn't have some real nice gingham?"

"Certainly."

Again it was as though the pack opened itself, and from it Jeff took a
partial bolt of red-checked gingham. Her eyes softened.

"It's real pretty."

"Feel its texture," Jeff urged. "Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., stocks only
the best. Shall we say about six yards?"

She said doubtfully, "Best make it three."

Jeff whipped a pair of scissors from his pack and a folding ruler from
his pocket. He measured and cut three yards of gingham. She fondled it
dreamily, and compared to the dress she wore, it was elegance itself.
Jeff stood expectantly, as though everything in the world were available
in his pack.

"Anything else?"

She eyed the scissors. "Can I have them, too?"

Jeff frowned slightly. "I don't know, ma'am. They sell for a dollar and
ten cents, and Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., must show a reasonable return.
Now--"

She said, as though suddenly remembering, "I've got a dollar."

"And for the rest might we have bread and chicken?"

"Oh, sure! I'll get it right now!"

She ran into the kitchen, lingered a few minutes, and returned with a
large package, one almost as large, and a small parcel. Jeff smacked his
lips. The largest package could contain nothing less than the better
part of a roast chicken, the one nearly as large must be a whole loaf of
bread, and she pressed all three on him.

"Some butter for your bread, an' here's the dollar. You comin' through
again?"

"When I do, ma'am, you have an honored place on my list of valued
customers."

"Then you will stop?"

"Most certainly."

"Be sure now."

"Ma'am, you have the word of Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd."

Jeff strode happily down the road, and he had cheated his customer in no
way. Tarrant Enterprises was always ready to barter, for Jeff had long
since learned that money must be spent. Now he had a meal as good as any
the best inns served and he had it for half of what he would have paid
in cash. But the woman was happy too, and that always made for a fair
deal.

When he came to where the two valleys made one, Jeff left the road and
sought the railroad tracks. Last night he had slept in a haystack, but
it was far from an ideal bed. Jeff had not resented the mice, for he
thought mice were interesting. The hay itself had been old, filled with
seeds and thistles, and tonight he wanted a better camp. It was always
possible to find one along a railroad.

As it always did when he sighted potential customers, Jeff's interest
quickened when he saw two men with a handcar beside them, working on the
tracks. He came abreast of them, two sweating, bewhiskered men who, even
on this bright day, managed to look sullen.

"Good afternoon, gentlemen."

They glowered at him from beneath bushy eyebrows, and looked meaningly
at each other.

"Beat it, peddler."

Jeff laughed merrily. "What a refreshing sense of humor! Such an
intelligent bit of wisdom! You are just the men I hoped to meet! I
represent Tarrant--"

"Beat it, peddler."

"Now just think about that! Reconsider! If--"

The two raised threatening pick axes. "Are you deef?"

"I was just going," Jeff said hastily.

He was not so much as a trifle saddened as he trudged on down the
tracks. Even Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., could not overcome sales
resistance that was backed by threatening pick axes, and nobody won
every time. Nobody had to, for just down the road there were sure to be
new customers.

Jeff came to a steel railroad bridge and looked with delighted eyes at
the creek flowing beneath it. It was a clear, spring-fed stream, and it
purled down riffles that filled a deep pool. Beneath the bridge there
were weeds, sand, some big rocks, and driftwood.

Scrambling down the embankment, Jeff sighed at the sheer luxury of such
a place. It had everything anyone needed. Carefully, he laid the pack
down, put his food parcels in the shade, and from his own personal
compartment of the pack he took a towel, a wash cloth, a bar of soap, a
tooth brush and a comb. Taking off his clothes, he plunged into the pool
and swam across. After five minutes he waded out, soaped himself from
head to foot, and rinsed in the pool. He was thus engaged when the
handcar rattled over the bridge.

Jeff dried himself, dressed and combed some order into the chaos of his
hair. For a while he was satisfied to lay in the sun, happy just to
dream.

Left without parents when a young child, he had been brought up in an
orphanage which he had voluntarily left when he was fourteen and a half.
He had worked for a farmer, for a livery stable which was in the process
of becoming converted to a garage, for a pipe line crew and for others,
long enough to convince himself that there is no special virtue in and
not much to be gained through hard work alone. For the past two and a
half years he had been owner, manager and entire working force of
Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd.

That, by train, car, horse conveyance and on foot, had taken him to both
coasts and both borders. He spent his summers in the north and his
winters in the south, and the tidy roll of bills sewed in an inside
pocket was proof that hard work is fine and wonderful if combined with
initiative and intelligence. It was a happy life, one he liked, and
though he thought he might take roots some time, he was not ready to do
it yet.

Not until dusk brought the first hint of evening chill did Jeff gather
wood and build a fire. He built it close enough to a big boulder so
that the rock's surface would reflect heat, but far enough away so that
it would not be too hot. He lingered beside the pool, listening to the
night noises.

Out in the forest a whippoorwill began its eerie cry, and a sleepy bird
twittered from its roost. The purling riffles splashed and called and a
breeze set the forest to sighing. Only a stone rolling down the
embankment seemed to be out of tune. Jeff's fire cast weird shadows, and
the snapping of the burning wood added its own notes to the symphony of
night.

Jeff turned from the stream toward his fire and confronted the two men
whom he had met along the railroad. Now he knew why that stone had
rolled.

Except for this one small sound, they had come silently, and in the
firelight they seemed even more unkempt than they had appeared in the
full light of day. They were big men, all muscle, and they carried pick
handles in their brawny fists. Jeff felt a cold chill ripple down his
spine, for it looked as though the least Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., was
about to lose was its entire capital stock. He tried to take command of
the situation.

"Good evening, gentlemen! I thought you'd be back! I was sure you are an
intelligent--"

One of the men said, "Take him, Buff."

The two parted to come at Jeff from both sides. He looked longingly at a
club lying near the fire, and as though he had read Jeff's mind, the man
called Buff stood on the club. Jeff backed slowly toward the water. He
might lose the pack. But he intended to keep his money and he had no
intention of letting anyone work him over with a pick handle. As he
retreated, he felt with his feet for rocks, clubs, anything at all with
which to fight back. The two men advanced slowly, and Jeff risked a
backward glance to see himself within three paces of the water. There
was only sand beneath his feet.

At exactly that moment, the dog appeared.

He came slowly, with dignity, but uncertainly, because he was not sure
of a welcome. Neither was he able to restrain himself any longer. For
more than a half hour he had hidden in the grass, studying and entranced
by Jeff. Now he had to find out whether he was acceptable. He halted
four feet away, not caring to go any closer until he was sure.

Seeing him, Jeff saw his own salvation. He snapped his fingers and said,
"Well! Where have you been keeping yourself?"

The dog sighed ecstatically. For so very long he had sought someone and
now at last he had found him. He came forward to brush his shaggy back
against Jeff's thighs, and he looked up at the two men.

Huge, a wild and savage-appearing thing, even in the full light of day,
he was even more so by the fire's dancing glow. His eyes sparked. His
pendulous jowls seemed taut and strained, and though he regarded the two
men with suspicion only, neither could know that. They backed.

Jeff patted the big dog's head and said amiably, "Just my dog. Just my
little old dog. I need some help while I attend to the far-flung
business of Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd." His tone became slightly
reproachful and he said to the dog, "Here! Here! Don't bite them now!"

The two men scrambled up the embankment and disappeared.




2. BAD LUCK


Where it flowed into the pool beneath the bridge, the creek made
rippling little noises. A swimming muskrat, going upstream and suddenly
seeing the fire and the two beside it, splashed as he dived. From
somewhere up in the forested hills there floated an owl's mournful cry.
Over all murmured a caressing little breeze which, while still soft with
summer's gentleness, had within it a foretaste of autumn's cold.

Shaken, Jeff stood a moment. It was not the first time anyone had tried
to strong-arm his pack away from him, but it was the closest anyone had
ever come to succeeding. His fright ebbed away. Tarrant Enterprises,
Ltd., had led him into other unusual situations and doubtless would lead
into more. He turned to the dog.

"Welcome, Pal!" he said grandly. "From now to forever you may share the
fortunes of Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd.! But what the dickens sent you at
exactly the right time?"

The dog quivered with delight. He had wandered for so long, his only aim
to find someone who would be glad of his company, and at last his goal
was reached! He wagged a happy tail and licked Jeff's hand with the tip
of a moist, warm tongue. Though he would never cringe, the dog would
appease, and now that he had found someone, in order to stay near he
would appease any way he could. Jeff's exploring hand found the dog's
matted head and ears, and a puzzled frown wrinkled his forehead.

"Whoever you belong to hasn't been taking very good care of you," he
murmured. "Haven't you ever been brushed?"

His hands dropped farther, to the dog's sides, and when he touched the
right front shoulder the great animal winced and brought his head
quickly around. Jeff had found the place which the chunk of wood had
struck, and that was painful. But the dog did not bare his teeth or
growl. Jeff took his hands away.

"You've been hurt, Pal," he said understandingly. "Here, let me feel it
once more."

Very gently, pressing no harder than was necessary, he went over the
right shoulder again. He could feel no broken bones, but just beneath
the skin was a jelly-like mass of congealed blood, and when Jeff brought
his hand away his fingers were sticky with blood. Next he found the
wound inflicted by the brindle bull, and as he continued to explore his
puzzlement increased.

The dog wore a round leather collar that formerly might have fitted
well, but because he was thin, it now hung loosely. There was no license
or identifying tag. Starved to gauntness, obviously the animal had been
receiving neither food nor attention. His long fur was matted, and there
were so many burrs of various kinds entangled in it that there was
almost no hope of grooming him properly.

The conviction grew upon Jeff that this dog was a stray, and that he
had come to the fire because there was no other place for him. Either
he'd lost his master or the master had lost him, and in either event, he
was homeless. Jeff frowned.

The whole success of Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., hinged on its being
entirely footloose. There were places to go, and often it was essential
to go there in somewhat of a hurry. Obviously, it would be impossible to
take a dog this size on a train, and certainly nobody with any sort of
vehicle would be inclined to pick him up.

Jeff said good-humoredly, "Why the dickens couldn't you have been one of
those flea-sized dogs that I might have tucked in my pocket?"

The dog wagged his tail and looked at this friendly human with happy
eyes. Jeff rubbed his huge head and tried to think a way out of his
dilemma. Surely the big fellow had no home and was loose on the
countryside. Familiar with stray dogs, Jeff knew that just one fate
awaited them; sooner or later, but surely, they were killed. Ordinarily
the young trader would have confined himself to pity. But this dog had
helped him when he was in desperate need of help. He must not be
abandoned now.

Perhaps, Jeff thought, he could find a family that would give the dog a
home--but he abandoned the notion almost as soon as it glimmered. How
many families wanted a dog half the size of a Shetland pony? Maybe he
could pay someone to take care of him. But how could he be sure that the
dog would be cared for and not abused? There was no way to check. Six
weeks from now, depending on where Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., led him,
Jeff might be a hundred or a thousand miles away. He did not know when,
if ever, he would come back. The happy thought that first things must be
first occurred to him.

While the dog looked gravely on, he tilted his bubbling coffee away from
the fire and unwrapped the chicken. The dog licked his lips and riveted
his gaze on the fowl. Jeff grinned. He'd been told that dogs should not
have chicken bones. But unless they were always tied or penned, sooner
or later most dogs found and ate them. At any rate, the dog had to eat
and there wasn't anything except chicken, bread and butter. Jeff sliced
both legs from the chicken and ordered,

"Sit!"

The dog sat; obviously he had had training. When Jeff extended a chicken
leg, the dog took it from him so gently that only his lips touched
Jeff's hand, but when he had the leg in his mouth he tore all the meat
from it with one turn of his jaws. Then he ground the bone to bits and
swallowed that too. Jeff looked at the two bites he had taken from his
own drumstick.

"Hey!" he protested. "Just because you're company, you don't have to
gobble everything in sight!"

He looked determinedly away and took another bite of chicken, but he
felt the dog's appealing eyes on him and turned back again.

"If you could talk," he said resignedly, "you could be sales manager for
Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd. You certainly know how to sell yourself."

Jeff cut a wing, gave it to the dog, and watched in fascination while it
went the way of, and as fast as, the chicken leg. He cut the loaf of
bread into six thick slices, spread an equal amount of butter on each,
and saw the dog gulp five of them. Jeff ate as rapidly as he could; if
he was going to get anything, he had to get it fast. He watched while
the dog ate all the rest of the chicken and cleaned and swallowed the
splintered bones.

"If you're going to be a partner," he observed, "you'd better learn to
pay your own way. I'll go broke just feeding you. Oh, well, we can
always have nice fresh air for breakfast. Now I'm going to work on you,
Pal. You do look sort of wild and woolly and it might help both of us
stay out of trouble if you didn't. Down!"

The dog lay down, eyes glowing happily, and Jeff used gentle fingers to
untangle his fur. Where it was matted too tightly, he cut it off with a
pair of scissors. Separating a hair at a time and using as little
pressure as possible, he worked on the injured right side. Then he took
a brush from his pack and brushed the dog smooth.

When he was finished, the animal still looked huge. His eyes sparked in
the firelight and his flabby jaws loaned him an air of grimness. But his
coat was no longer tangled or burr-matted. He looked forbidding enough
so that it was easy to understand why the two track workers, seeing him
and thinking he was Jeff's, had decided to run. Even though they were
armed with pick handles, anyone at all might well hesitate to make rash
moves around this mammoth creature.

"Now we have to get wood, Pal," Jeff told his new friend. "The nights in
mountain country are apt to be on the cool side."

He cast around for driftwood that the creek had thrown onto its banks
and when he had an armful, he dumped it near the fire. Always the dog
padded beside or behind him, as though fearful he would lose this kind
master should he wander more than a foot from him. Jeff threw some wood
on the fire and a shower of sparks floated into the air. The dog curled
contentedly near when he lay down with his back against the boulder.

Jeff awakened at periodic intervals to throw more wood on the fire, and
in the misty gray of early morning he was aroused by the unmistakable
sound of a freight train making up. He listened intently; it paid to
understand freight trains. He hadn't known how far off Cressman was, but
he knew now. Judging by the sound of the freight train--the railroad
yards must be in Cressman--it was about one mile or twenty minutes' walk
away.

Without getting up, the dog bared his gleaming fangs in a cavernous
yawn. He rose, stretched, came to Jeff for a morning caress, and drank
from the creek. Jeff looked admiringly at him. The dog was one of the
biggest he'd ever seen, but he moved with all the grace of a much
smaller animal. Jeff dipped water, prodded his fire and put fresh coffee
on to brew. The dog looked expectantly at him.

"You ate it all last night," Jeff explained. "There isn't a thing left
unless maybe you like coffee."

The dog sniffed about to lick up splinters of bone and Jeff looked at
his big pocket watch. He lay back against the boulder, pillowing his
head on his hands and blinking into the rising sun.

"Quarter to six," he told his companion. "And we have to time our
arrival in this metropolis almost to the minute. Time waits for no man,
but we'll wait for time."

The freight labored toward them, rumbled over the bridge and sent a
shower of dust and cinder particles down. Sitting a little ways from the
fire, the dog did not even look up. Jeff poured a cup of black coffee,
sipped it, and the dog licked his chops. He was not as hungry as he had
been, for last night's meal was a satisfying one. But he had been so
long without food that he would have eaten had there been anything to
eat.

Jeff still lolled idly against the boulder. Dogs were welcome in some
towns and unwelcome in others, and Jeff had never been to Cressman. But
it was a county seat, there was sure to be a court house, and court
houses opened at nine sharp. Jeff wanted to be there at that time but
not before. If the dog had a license, even though some might protest his
presence, they could do nothing about it as long as he was accompanied
by Jeff.

Finishing his coffee, Jeff poured another cupful, drank it and dozed for
a while. Though he had had a long rest, it was well to sleep while he
could. Often Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., walked into a situation where
there was no possibility of any rest. At exactly twenty minutes to nine,
with the dog beside him, Jeff started down the tracks.

Cressman, he saw when he entered its outskirts, was a good-sized town
and typical. Neat white houses framed both sides of the street. The
business section would be farther on, and naturally the large building
with a flag pole on top would be the court house. Jeff walked swiftly,
paying no attention to the stares directed at him. He had expected the
dog to arouse notice. The clock over its entrance pointed to nine when
he reached the court house.

The dog close beside him, Jeff entered and turned down a corridor where
a white-lettered black sign indicated that licenses might be had. He
paused beside a grilled window behind which was draped a lank,
black-haired, heavy-eyed, middle-aged clerk who looked as though he had
never been fully awake. Without glancing around, the clerk asked a
weary, "Yes?"

"I want a license."

"What kind?"

"What kinds do you have?"

"Hunting, fishing, marriage, building, auto, dog, store, cafÃ©--"

"A wide-enough choice. I want a dog license."

Jeff took the yellow form and the pencil that were offered to him and
started to write. He turned the pencil sideways and pressed until the
lead broke. Jeff handed it back.

"This is no good. I'll use one of my own."

His hand stole into the pack and brought forth a mechanical pencil. Not
looking at the clerk, Jeff gave absorbed attention to the yellow form.
Under "sex" he wrote "male." When he came to "age" he looked shrewdly at
the dog and penciled in "3 yrs." "Breed" proved difficult, but not for
very long. Sure that nobody else would know it either, Jeff wrote
"Algerian boar hound." "Name" was simple. Happily Jeff wrote "Pal" and
shoved the slip back through the grill.

The clerk was staring intently at the pencil. "Where'd you get that?"

"This?" Jeff held the pencil up. "It's a Bagstone, the newest thing. I
wouldn't be without one."

"Want to sell it?"

"_Uh-uh._ I have only a couple left and I may need them."

"What's it cost?"

"A dollar."

"License is fifty cents. Can we swap?"

Jeff passed the pencil through the grill, but instead of the expected
fifty cents, the clerk handed him another slip of paper.

"What's this?"

"Peddler's license and you're a peddler. They cost fifty cents, so we're
even."

Jeff, who had thought the clerk a naÃ¯ve rustic, grinned his appreciation
of someone else who knew how to get what he wanted and started down the
corridor. He was still cheerful; he'd bought a dozen of the pencils for
two dollars, and all except two were sold. It was a good sign, and he
might do a brisk business in Cressman. He hadn't thought so when he came
in because there were many stores, and usually people would not buy from
a peddler if they could get what they wanted at a store. But Jeff felt
lucky.

Coming in, he'd been in too much of a hurry to reach the court house to
pay much attention to the town. Now he had an opportunity to examine it
closely.

Between 2500 and 3000 people, he guessed, lived in Cressman. They were
supported by the railroad yards and by a sawmill whose screeching saw
made a hideous noise on that end of town which Jeff had not yet visited,
and the workers must be well paid because there was every evidence of
prosperity. The wooden sidewalks were well cared for, the dirt streets
were clean, the horses on the streets were good animals that cost a fair
amount of money, and there were a few autos with brass-fronted
radiators.

These were all good signs. The fact that the stores seemed well
patronized was bad, but Jeff wouldn't be able to tell until he had done
some canvassing of his own, and he wanted to do that before getting
breakfast for Pal and himself. Trade ran in cycles. If one Cressmanite
was quarreling with the storekeepers, the chances were good that the
person's friends would be similarly disposed to take an unkind view of
merchants. If there were several such quarrels, Jeff might do a thriving
business.

The young trader took an unobtrusive stand beside a store whose sign
read "JOHN T. ALLEN, GENERAL MERCHANDISE." Beneath that, in smaller
letters was, "The best of everything for everyone at the lowest prices."
Pal sat down as close as he could get and touched Jeff's dangling hand
with a cold nose.

There were few people on the street, but that was to be expected at this
hour. The workers would be working, the housewives taking care of their
houses and the children playing. Jeff's eyes roved down the main street.
He located and filed away in his mind the doctor's office, the dentist,
the stores, the blacksmith shop, the livery stable and other business
establishments. He knew where the sawmill was and he saw two church
steeples. With few exceptions, all the rest would be homes. It was a
good, substantial town, one of many such that Jeff had visited.

He looked with mingled wistfulness and amusement at a boy plodding down
the sidewalk toward him. About eight years old, the youngster wore a
faded shirt, torn pants, and had a dirty face that was lighted by bright
eyes and a grin. He shuffled along, being careful to step only on the
cracks in the sidewalk and kicking at small objects in his path. Then he
saw the dog. His head went up, his grin became a smile, and he hurried
to pause in front of Jeff and Pal.

"Gee!" he breathed. "Is he ever big! What's his name?"

"Pal," Jeff answered. "Do you like big dogs, son?"

"I like all dogs. Does he bite?"

"Gentle as a kitten. Go ahead and pet him."

Pal stood, his head reaching almost to the youngster's shoulders, and
wagged a welcoming tail at the hand stretched toward him. The boy
tickled Pal's ears and smoothed his muzzle.

"Wish he was mine!" he sighed.

"Don't you have a dog?"

"My paw," the boy said mournfully, "won't let me have one. Well, I got
to go down to Skinner's and get Maw some sugar."

"Take this."

Jeff drew a peppermint stick from his pack and extended it. The boy took
it with the same hand he had used to pet Pal and grinned his thanks.
Jeff watched him skip down the street and sighed. He liked everybody,
but he had an especially soft spot in his heart for children. Besides,
it was good business. Should he decide to make a house-to-house canvass,
he had already paved the way in at least one home.

Two women passed, going to the far side of the walk and keeping their
eyes averted when they reached Jeff, and a man came from the opposite
direction. Without seeming to, Jeff studied him.

About thirty, the man was slim and supple. Snapping black eyes and a
pert waxed mustache betrayed his French origin, and from his quick, sure
steps he was a woodsman. He swerved into John T. Allen's store and Jeff
decided that he was a man of short temper. A moment later, that opinion
was borne out.

"_SacrÃ©!_" came an outraged roar. "You are a dog among dogs! A pig among
pigs! You cheat the honest people!"

There came a snappish but calmer voice. "Take it easy, Pierre."

"Nev-air!" Pierre shouted. "Nev-air, and nev-air do I come back!" He
bristled out of the store, turned to fling a final "Nev-air, pig!" back
into it, and confronted Jeff.

"You know what he do?" he screamed. "I need the knife, the good hunting
knife! For it he wants a doll-air and twenty-five cents!"

"Maybe they're worth that much."

"_Non!_ Nev-air!" He looked seriously at Jeff. "You sell the hunting
knife?"

"I do not compete with merchants."

"You sell the hunting knife?" Pierre repeated.

"I--"

"Sell me the hunting knife!"

"But--"

"This I demand! Sell me the hunting knife!"

With every show of reluctance, Jeff drew a hunting knife with a
three-inch blade from his pack. Pierre snatched it and his eyes lighted
deliriously.

"How much?"

"A dollar and twenty cents."

"Is good!"

Pierre pressed a rumpled dollar bill and two dimes into Jeff's hand,
danced back to the store entrance and waved the knife as though he were
about to go scalping with it.

"See!" he screamed at the storekeeper. "Dog! See! The pedd-lair, he do
better than you! I have the hunting knife!"

Pierre stamped fiercely away and Jeff settled back to watch. But only
for a moment.

The man who came out of the store was no more than five feet three and
so thin that he seemed in imminent danger of collapsing. His nose,
covering a fair share of his face, was oddly like a rudder. A few
strands of blond hair clung precariously to his head and his eyes were
furious.

"Did you sell that man a knife?"

"Yes, I did."

Without further ceremony, but with a roar that seemed incapable of
emerging from one so small, the storekeeper bellowed,

"Joe!"

It was a signal Jeff had heard many times in many voices that expressed
it many ways. This was one of the occasions when Tarrant Enterprises,
Ltd., had better move fast. The dog fell in beside him as Jeff started
to run. He was too late, though.

It was as though the storekeeper possessed some magical quality that
could conjure up images at will. Jeff's path was suddenly blocked by a
burly two-hundred-and-ten-pound man who wore a gun, a constable's badge,
an air of authority, and who had never wasted any time acquiring fat. He
loomed over Jeff as a mountain looms over a knoll.

"What's up?" he demanded.

"This peddler," the storekeeper reverted to his customary snappish
voice, "is interfering with merchants. He sold Pierre LeLerc a hunting
knife."

"Did you?" the constable asked Jeff.

"Yes, but I have a license."

"It's not one that allows you to peddle in business districts," the
storekeeper asserted. "Jail him, Joe."

"You comin' peaceable?" the constable asked. "Or should I take you!"

"Peaceable," Jeff answered hurriedly. "Always peaceable."

"Come on, then. Your dog got a license?"

"Look for yourself. Just sort of watch your hand."

"That dog bite?"

"Not usually."

"See that he don't, huh?"

"I'll see," Jeff promised.

He fell resignedly in beside the constable while Pal paced behind him.
He thought ruefully of how little a feeling of good fortune could be
trusted. Still, by no means would this be the first jail to have him as
guest, and probably it would not be the last. He might as well make the
best of it.

"Nice town you have here," he said companionably.

"Yeah," the constable was entirely willing to be friendly, "it's all
right."

"How long have you been chief of police in Cressman?"

"Nine years. Say! That's a good title! Chief of Police, huh?"

"You should call yourself that," Jeff asserted. "Do you have much
trouble?"

The constable shrugged. "It depends."

"There's just one thing I wonder about," Jeff said. "I've met a lot of
police in a lot of towns. All the rest had silver badges. How come yours
is brass?"

"It was silver when I got it," the constable said ruefully. "Blame thing
turned color on me."

"Why don't you polish it?"

"I do ever' night. Use soap and all. Can't do a thing with it."

"Have you tried Blecker's Silver Polish?"

"What's that?"

"A polish for badges."

"Never heard of it."

"Some store in Cressman should stock it."

"They don't. I've tried everything they have." He looked searchingly at
Jeff. "Do you have any?"

"Yes but," Jeff laughed nervously, "you've already got me on one charge.
I wouldn't care to be up on two."

"Let me see it," the constable urged.

"I'd better not."

"I won't tell a person, and you have the word of Joe Parker for that.
Come on. Let's sneak behind this fence and have a look."

"Well--"

In the shadow of the fence, Jeff took a jar of Blecker's Unique Silver
Polish from his pack, dipped an end of his handkerchief lightly into it,
and carefully rubbed a small portion of the badge. As though by magic,
the tarnish disappeared and bright silver gleamed where it had been.

"How much does that cost?" the constable breathed.

"Thirty cents a jar, but you've treated me so nicely, I'll let you have
two for fifty cents."

"Thanks." The constable slipped the two jars into his trousers pocket,
gave Jeff a half dollar, and said, "Guess we'd better get to jail."

"Guess we had."

The constable steered Jeff and Pal back to the court house but took them
into the basement, instead of the main entrance. There were two windows
with a desk beneath them, and behind the desk sat a gray-haired man
with a friendly face but a weary smile. In the dimly-lighted corridor
beyond were four jail cells.

The constable paused at the desk. "Hi, Pop," he greeted the jailer.
"This peddler was peddlin' near stores. You tell him what to do with his
dog and pack, huh?"

Without another glance at Jeff, Joe Parker turned and started back
toward the entrance. Even as he walked, he industriously polished his
badge.




3. ESCAPE


The jailer tilted his chair, clamped both hands behind his head, and
looked steadily at the new arrival. Jeff stood still, sensing something
here that had not been evident at first glance. Pop had a kindly face
and a weary smile, but were they a mask? After a moment, he spoke.

"What are you doing here, boy?"

"Getting in jail."

"You're a peddler?"

"I represent Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd. Now I have here--"

"Whoa! Whoa there! I see a lot of peddlers. My knife is all right, my
watch is all right, I don't need tooth picks, tooth brushes, or anything
else, and I haven't any family. How long have you been peddling?"

"Quite a spell."

"You ever been in trouble before?"

Jeff said blandly, "I've been in jail before."

"You're just a kid and I don't like to see kids in trouble," the jailer
murmured sadly.

"How much trouble am I in?"

"You'll be kept until you can be brought before Justice Murphy. He'll
fine you five dollars and tell you to get out of town."

"Can't I see him now?"

"Justice Murphy," the jailer said, "has gone fishing. He won't be back
for a week."

"Then I'm to be your guest for a week?"

"It looks that way. Might as well get you checked in."

He took a pad of forms from the desk and balanced a pencil. In the
proper places he inscribed Jeff's name, age, the offense with which he
was charged, and other pertinent data. He looked closely at what he had
written, and from the dark cells in back came a shouted, "Hey, Pop!
Who's the new tenant?"

"Shut up, Ike."

"Aw, bring him back, Pop. Bucky and me'd like to meet him."

"You two be quiet," Pop reprimanded the prisoner. Then he addressed
Jeff. "Ike Wilson and Bucky Edwards--they finally got caught."

"What for?"

"Stealing chickens."

Jeff looked unbelieving and the jailer's face became less gentle. For a
moment he was almost stern.

"That's serious. It isn't a light matter."

"I know."

"Then why did you look so doubtful?"

"It seems a few chickens are hardly worth a jail sentence."

"They're not, and neither is anything else, but some people never learn
that. It just happens those boys weren't satisfied with one chicken.
They got three thousand that anybody knows about."

"Whew!"

"They'll pay for it. Now, Jeff, I'll have to take your dog."

Jeff sparred for time. He had known other people in similar
circumstances whose dog had been taken away, and half the time they'd
simply disappeared. That they'd sickened and died was the usual story,
but actually they'd been destroyed because it was too much trouble to
take care of them. Outwardly, Jeff affected an air of supreme
indifference.

"Sure," he agreed. "Go ahead. Just be careful. Pal doesn't like a lot of
people and he bites whoever he dislikes. Better be careful he gets his
regular feeding every day, too. That's four pounds of the best ground
steak. He hates everybody if he doesn't get it."

"Yeah?" Pop was not at all friendly now. "Suppose he gets sick?"

"If I don't get him back--and in as good a shape as when he was taken
away--I know a couple of good lawyers."

"Lawyers cost money."

"I have a certain amount of influence."

Pop rubbed his chin reflectively and stared at the window. "I suppose
you could keep him in your cell if you want to pay for his board."

"I might," Jeff said, knowing he had won this round and that his chance
shot had hit the bull's-eye. Obviously, for reasons of his own, Pop did
not care to have any lawyers investigating anything. "How good a cell?"

Pop was all brittle now. "If you've been in other cells, you know how
good. How old are you?"

"Old enough to land in jail. That tie you're wearing, Pop. It hardly
befits the dignity of your position and--"

"I told you not to try to sell anything to me! Maybe, just maybe, we can
think up some other charge."

"We'd buy if we had any money!" the man in the back cell yelled. "What's
your name, peddler?"

"Jeff Tarrant, representing Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd. The most quality
for the most discriminating people."

"What's that dis-dingus mean?"

"It means shut up!" Pop snarled. "You're a smart one, huh?"

Jeff said meekly, "All I know is black from white. I take my pack in the
cell too, don't I?"

"No!"

"I know exactly what's in it," Jeff warned, "and I know just what to do
if even a penny's worth is missing. Maybe I know what to do if nothing's
missing."

"We can get tough, too."

"I want that pack."

"All right. Keep it and come on."

Pal stayed very close to Jeff as Pop led them toward the cells. The two
chicken thieves came to the front of theirs and clasped the bars with
their hands. They were wholly delighted because, in his brush with Jeff,
Pop had come off second best. Jeff grinned back at them.

"Hi, Jeff! Got anything to make our happy home happier?"

"Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., has something for everyone and can please
you. Here is a nice hack saw."

"I'll take that," Pop said.

"You'll take it for thirty-nine cents."

"Hand it over. You'll get it back when you leave."

"Well--" Jeff gave him the hack saw and the pair in the adjoining cell
roared with laughter.

Pop asked, "Got any more?"

"Unfortunately, the hack saw department is understocked and our new
order has not arrived."

"Get in."

Pop unlocked a cell and Jeff and Pal entered. The bars were in front
only; the cells were separated by brick walls. Adjusting his eyes to the
gloomy interior, Jeff saw two bunks with dirty mattresses suspended by
chains that were attached to the wall. There was an iron stand upon
which stood a chipped basin and a faded towel. Beneath the stand was a
bucket. Pop slammed the door.

"I sleep in front," he advised. "I've got a sawed-off shotgun and I know
how to use it. Besides, just trying to break out can mean six months in
prison. Think it over."

"Sure." Jeff smiled.

Pop strode back to the desk while the two chicken thieves shouted
raucous insults. Jeff lost himself in thought.

The situation had been quite obvious from the moment he entered the
jail. Few towns had a full-time jailer for two or three
prisoners--unless there were other factors involved--and almost without
exception such factors existed only when there were certain affairs that
would not bear close examination. The majority of Cressman's citizens
probably were honest, hard-working people, but some of its officials
were not. The fact that they could be dishonest only because the rest
were indifferent to the way their town's affairs were conducted did not
change the situation. If he were one of the inside clique, Pop would
have a better job, but he evidently knew enough so that he had to be
given something in order to prevent his talking. Pop's reaction when
Jeff expressed such utter willingness to take the matter up with an
attorney--offered additional proof of this.

Jeff let his hand fondle Pal's head as he considered his chances. There
was little possibility of breaking out by force and it would not be a
good idea to do so anyway. As things stood, he faced a minor charge.
Breaking jail was a major one. It was illegal to keep him confined for
seven days without benefit of counsel, but that could be brushed over.
They could always claim that they had held him on suspicion of some more
serious charge.

Jeff sighed. He held a club over Cressman, but Cressman held him in
jail. He scratched Pal's ears and murmured,

"Let it never be said that Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., gave way to
despair."

"What'd you say, Jeff?" Ike called.

"Comfortable home," Jeff answered gaily.

"Counted the cockroaches in your private suite?"

"Not yet."

"We got forty-seven," Ike said proudly. "One nigh as big as that dog of
yours. What you got in your pack?"

"Candles?" Jeff suggested.

"Law! If Bucky and me had any money, we'd buy some."

Jeff took three candles, which he bought for a penny and sold for three
cents each, from his pocket. He handed two of them and a half dozen
matches around the end of his cell.

"A gift from Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd."

"Thanks, Tarrant what-you-call-it. We'll pay you soon's we've found us a
fortune."

"I'll count on it," Jeff said.

He lighted the third candle, dripped wax from it onto the iron stand,
and set it upright in its own drippings. By its flickering light, he
examined the cell more closely. It was what he had expected. The floor
was dirty, the mattresses only a little less so, and cockroaches
scurried for cracks.

Jeff let his hand brush Pal's head again. Completely trusting, the dog
wagged his tail and shoved his nose against his master's thigh. Dragging
the mattress from the top bunk, Jeff laid it on the floor. Conceivably,
even a dog would protest against sleeping up there.

Hunger reminded Jeff that neither he nor Pal had eaten anything since
last night, and again he took refuge in the happy thought that first
things must be first. He edged up to the bars and said softly,

"Ike."

"Yeah?"

"Where's the food come from around here?"

"The garbage can," Ike answered sadly. "Anyhow, that's what I think."

"Can we get any other?"

"If you got money, you can ask Pop."

"Nothing like trying." Jeff raised his voice, "Hey, Pop!"

"What do you want?"

"How about something to eat?"

"It's not lunch time."

"How about some anyhow?"

"Got any money?"

Jeff replied mournfully, "A few pennies that I've been saving for my old
age. I can pay for it."

Pop came to the cell. "What you want?"

"Three loaves of bread and three half pounds of cheese."

"Let's have the money."

"_Uh-uh._ Bring it first."

"Show me the money."

Jeff held up two crumpled dollar bills. Pop walked to the entrance and
there came the click of his key turning in the lock. Breathless silence
reigned; this was a momentous occasion that must be properly observed.
Ten minutes later the key clicked again and Pop came in with parcels.

"Three loaves of bread," he read from a slip, "eighteen cents. A pound
and a half of cheese, thirty cents. And," he looked maliciously at Jeff,
"four pounds of the best ground steak for the dog, one dollar."

Jeff grinned; his own words had backfired on him. He had intended to
give Pal a loaf of bread and a half pound of cheese, to offer the same
to those in the next cell, and to keep as much for himself. But he did
not lose his aplomb.

"Exactly!" he exclaimed. "Just what I wanted! But I wouldn't think of
paying in money when I can offer something of great value! Now--"

"Give me the money," Pop growled. "A dollar and forty-eight cents."

"Oh, well, if you must be crass--" Jeff gave him a dollar bill and
forty-eight cents in change. "Give my pals in the next cell a loaf of
bread and a pound of cheese."

"Thanks!" Ike said feelingly, and even the silent Bucky mumbled his
gratitude. Jeff laid his pack on the lower bunk, put his food on the
pack, and made two sandwiches with a half pound of raw ground steak
between each. He spread a paper, scooped two pounds of steak upon it,
and gave it to Pal. The rest of the steak he passed into the next cell.

"This," Ike exclaimed, "is as good as a hotel! Best grub I ever threw a
lip over! Jeff, if ever you want a helping hand, you can count on me and
Bucky!"

"I'll remember," Jeff promised.

He ate his two sandwiches while Pal licked thoroughly the paper in which
the steak had been wrapped. Then he looked up appealingly and Jeff threw
him a quarter loaf of bread. The rest of the food he put in his pack. He
heard Ike's whispered,

"Jeff."

Jeff went to the front of the cell. "Yes?"

"You want to get out of here, I'll make like I'm sick. When that old
fool comes in, Bucky and me will grab him and get his keys. We'll give
'em to you and you can beat it."

"What about you?"

"Ha!" Ike scoffed. "They can't do much more to us than they're already
going to do!"

"Thanks just the same, but we'd better not."

"You like this hole?"

"No, but there must be a better way."

"There's none quicker."

"I know. Thanks anyway. Why don't you two get out?"

"We don't das't," Ike mourned. "How'd we know, when we got Bill
Wheeler's chickens, that Bill'd call his seven brothers in? They're
asettin' round the town, just waitin' for me and Bucky to break loose,
and every one of 'em with a rifle. When Bucky and me go out of Cressman,
we got to go with officers."

Jeff chuckled. "Too bad, Ike. But I don't want to break jail."

The day wore on. Grown accustomed to the candle light, the cockroaches
came out of their cracks and scurried across the floor. This proved
vastly intriguing to Pal, who watched them interestedly. He made quick
little rushes, but the cockroaches always escaped. Jeff walked
restlessly around the small cell. There had to be a way out because
there was a way out of everything, but he could think of nothing.

Suddenly inspired, he called, "Pop!"

"What?"

"I--I just wanted to see if you were still there."

"Of course I'm here."

Jeff, who had intended to hold a five-dollar bill against the cell bars
and indicate that it would be Pop's in exchange for freedom, abandoned
the plan almost as soon as he conceived it because it was hardly
consistent with the business policies of Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., or
with its standards. He must pay for nothing if he could trade, and there
had to be something he could trade for release.

Bucky said fretfully, "Jeff."

"What do you want?"

"Got anything in that pack of yours that'll help pass time?"

"How about some music?"

"Anything!"

Jeff took from his pocket a small mouth organ with which he often
beguiled the hours. He was happy again, and his smile glowed once more.
He'd been thinking too hard. If he relaxed with the mouth organ for a
little while, and cleared his mind, he would get some new ideas. By way
of tuning up, he blew a soft note and the cell erupted.

Pal, who had been lying quietly on the mattress, leaped to his feet,
pointed his head erect, and voiced a weird howl. It was not the cry of a
dog but a banshee shriek, a wailing of lost souls and tortured beings,
and it filled the room like a solid substance. Descending on a low moan,
it stopped. Pal lifted his lips and snarled fiercely.

The two in the next cell gave way to hysterical laughter and Pop bustled
from his desk.

"You'll have to keep that dog--"

He took a backward step as Pal snarled again. The mouth organ hidden in
his hand, Jeff stood innocently. Pop stared.

"Why does he do that?"

"I don't know."

"You'll have to keep him quiet."

"I'll try," Jeff promised.

His blue eyes were dancing and his smile broadened. Some dogs were
affected by sounds beyond those which normally came to their ears, and
Jeff had never decided whether they reacted because certain noises
grated harshly on their ears, because some sounds reminded them of a
battle or other experience, or if they were merely inclined to be in
tune. Obviously Pal was given to the latter sort of response. Waiting
until Pop returned to the desk, Jeff blew the same note as softly.

Pal responded with a whole chorus of shrieks that began on a tenor note
and ascended to a high soprano. The echoes rolled back from the walls
and seemed to bound forward again. It was almost an incredible thing
that was promptly repeated when Jeff blew another note.

"Shut that dog up!" Pop shrieked.

"I'm trying!" Jeff said desperately.

The door opened. Joe Parker came in. Jeff blew again, very softly, and
Pal's immediate response filled the room. Their faces angry, Pop and the
constable appeared in front of the cell and shouted to make themselves
heard.

"Quiet!"

"What'd you say?" Jeff yelled.

"Quiet!"

Pal stopped howling, but he stopped so abruptly that the constable still
shouted.

"If you can't make that dog be quiet, I'll take him out of here!"

Pal voiced the snarl that followed his howling and both men stepped
back. Joe Parker's hand dipped to his gun.

"You don't have to shout," Jeff soothed. "I can hear you. And I wouldn't
shoot, either. The dog's mine, he can't possibly hurt you, and there are
two witnesses who will prove it."

"Sure thing," Ike agreed happily. "Bucky and me are your boys!"

"Make him stop yelling," the constable said. "People are standing on the
street, wondering who's getting murdered down here."

"Send them down," Jeff invited. "I represent Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd.,
and I might sell--"

"That dog has to stop yelling!"

Jeff shook a chiding finger at Pal. "Stop yelling!"

Pop and the constable left. Ike and Bucky chuckled. Pal sat down,
expectant eyes fixed on the hand that held Jeff's mouth organ. He knew
now where the sound originated, and he was ready the instant Jeff raised
his hand. Pop and the constable, their faces entreating rather than
commanding, came back.

"Can't you make him shut up?"

"I told him. You heard me tell him."

"We can't have that noise."

"Why not?" Ike jeered. "Does it keep all the workers in the court house
awake?"

"Judge Carlson's trying to work," the constable said. "He'll be working
until nine tonight."

"Thought you said he'd gone fishing?" Jeff accused Pop.

"That's Justice Murphy. He hears all the cases where no more than fifty
dollars is involved."

"Don't make the judge mad!" Ike chortled. "What if he gets real upset?"

"Can't you make him shut up?" the constable pleaded.

"I'll try."

The two went back to the desk. A match flared there, and an oil lamp
cast its yellow glow into the corridor; apparently night was
approaching. The constable left and Jeff pocketed the mouth organ. Five
minutes later he brought it out again and once more Pal wrecked the
silence. The door burst open, slammed shut, and Pop and the constable
stood before Jeff's cell.

Joe Parker spoke, "How'd you like to get out, peddler?"

"I don't know," Jeff said smoothly. "I like it here."

"Now look, why can't you be reasonable? We haven't got much on you and
we're not mad at you. Ever'body's going to be plumb out of their minds
if that dog howls down here for a whole week!"

"What's your proposition?" Jeff asked serenely.

"We'll leave you out, give you and that howling wolf pack ten minutes to
get out of town, and start looking for you."

Jeff hesitated, scenting a trap and guessing that something besides
Pal's howling was involved. Probably Pop had not been reticent about the
new prisoner's willingness to consult attorneys.... Jeff said finally,
"And if you catch me, you'll have me for breaking jail, too?"

The constable retorted grimly, "We don't aim to hunt _that_ hard."

For a moment Jeff pondered, as though considering everything seriously.
His face was solemn when he looked up.

"Nope," he said. "It's not enough."

Ike looked pained. "What do you want for getting out of jail?"

"Pop owes me thirty-nine cents for a hack saw."

"I'll give the hack saw back," Pop offered quickly.

"I don't want it. I want thirty-nine cents."

"Oh, for pete's sake!"

Pop took a purse from his pocket, counted out thirty-nine cents, and
passed it through the bars. Jeff pocketed the money.

"What's the next town?"

"Stay right in the valley. Seven miles down, you'll come to Delview. You
can't miss, and heaven help Delview if they pick you up!"

"Any other place?"

"North through the mountains there's Smithville. Better not try it,
there's no direct road and those mountains are plenty rugged."

"Good town, though," Ike called. "That constable in Smithville, he
minds his own business most of the time. So does most ever'body else. It
pays, in Smithville."

"Wild place, huh?"

"Not wild," Ike declared. "Just sensible."

"I'll go to Delview," Jeff decided.

"That's worse'n Cressman," Ike snorted. "They jail you there for lookin'
cross-eyed."

"You got to go now," Joe pointed out. "You took Pop's money."

"Open the cell."

"'Bye, Jeff," Ike called. "Me'n Bucky may be seeing you."

"Take care of yourselves."

Outside, instead of going to the main street, Jeff slipped behind the
court house. Two more moving shadows in a place of shadows, he and Pal
flitted past a cluster of lilacs and darted to a patch of trees. They
threaded their way through the town, always alert and careful.

Again on the outskirts of Cressman, Jeff heaved a sigh of relief and
walked swiftly down the road. Once more Pal had saved the day;
apparently Pop and the constable had wanted only, and wholeheartedly, to
be rid of them. Jeff felt a little saddened. The shining name of Tarrant
Enterprises, Ltd., had become a little tarnished in Cressman. The
concern had spent money and earned little enough.

Jeff was startled by the gruff command, "Wait thar!"

He halted. A man stepped out of the shadows, looked closely at him,
pointed a sawed-off shotgun at the ground and said, "Go ahead."

Jeff thought of Ike and Bucky. Probably this man was one of the pickets
waiting for them.

He recovered his cheer. There were always fresh customers down the
road, but they would not be where Jeff had told Joe Parker he intended
to seek them. It would be no difficult matter to send a message to
Delview, and to ask the police there to be alert for a peddler
accompanied by a huge dog.

At the first break in the mountains, Jeff left the road and started for
the opportunities that must surely await him in Smithville.




4. THE CABIN


The rising sun turned the tops of the mountains to gold, and like
slow-flowing water, sunshine crept gradually down the slopes. In a grove
of pines, a chickaree came out of the warm nest where he had spent the
night. Three inches from his nest, the chickaree paused on an outjutting
stub.

A hawk winged through the pines regularly, and though it had always
missed by a comfortable margin, it had struck three times at the
chickaree. The pines were part of a marten's beat, and the marten had
chased the chickaree several times. In addition, on their way to one
place or another, various other predators wandered through the pines and
few of them were averse to eating chickaree.

The chickaree held perfectly still, bright eyes glowing and small ears
straining. Neither the hawk nor the marten were present, and the
chickaree was puzzled because he could see nothing else. That should not
be. Three big bucks were spending the season on this slope and every
night they bedded in the pines. This morning there was no sign of them.

Though he could neither see nor hear anything, the chickaree knew that
something was present, if only because the deer were not. After five
minutes, having assured himself that there was no immediate threat, the
chickaree set out to find whatever he had sensed.

He scampered up the pine, leaped effortlessly into another, and took a
different stand. Again he examined the grove. A smell of wood smoke
tickled his nostrils and the chickaree knew that a man had come to the
pines. That much discovered, he went into action.

He leaped to another pine, raced swiftly up it, and made a leap so long
that the twigs upon which he landed bent precariously. A master of
aerial travel, the chickaree paid no heed.

Three minutes later he found the man sleeping under a big pine. There
was a huge dog beside him and a bed of glowing coals so arranged that
the heat they cast enveloped both man and dog. The chickaree paused,
anger in his eyes. He had squatters' rights in these pines and he lacked
the remotest intention of sharing them with any man. Biting off a pine
cone, the chickaree dropped it squarely on the man's face.

Jeff Tarrant came awake.

There was no lingering struggle to achieve complete wakefulness and no
dropping back for another five minutes' slumber because Jeff had long
since learned that that must never be. He had to awaken instantly, and
at the least disturbance, because there was always a possibility that he
might have to get up fighting, and he had a distinct impression that
something had dropped on his face.

Swift glances in all directions told him that there was nothing except
Pal near, and Jeff relaxed. Now he could attend to the ceremony of
awakening. Jeff rubbed his eyes, yawned, stretched and rose. Rising with
him, Pal saw the madly-fleeing chickaree; following the dog's gaze,
Jeff saw it, too. Appalled by his own boldness, the chickaree was
putting distance between Jeff and himself as rapidly as possible. Jeff
grinned.

"So! He doesn't want us around either! Pal, seems to me that lately
nobody has wanted anything to do with Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd.! Shame
on them!"

Pal wagged his tail and made an enthusiastic attempt to lick his
master's face. Jeff pushed him away; Pal's tongue was approximately the
size of a dish towel and the consistency of sand paper. Not to be
defeated, Pal got in a number of good licks on his friend's hand and
Jeff chided, "Cut it out! I can wash myself!"

As he walked to a little runlet that trickled through the pines and
washed his face and hands, Jeff thought of last night.

In the valley up which he had traveled, that runlet became a good-sized
stream, with several deep pools. Having fallen into two of them last
night, Jeff had discovered the pools the hard way. But he had achieved
his purpose. It was not only possible but highly probable that Joe
Parker and Pop had ideas which they hadn't bothered to disclose when
letting Jeff out of jail. If they were able to catch him again, he would
be charged with jail breaking. That meant six months, and six months was
plenty of time to steal the pack's contents. However, even if they
followed him into the mountains, they couldn't catch him.

A satisfying vision of the Delview police looking for him, and of Pop
and the constable hopefully waiting, formed in Jeff's mind. He grinned
happily. Even though he was stranded in a wilderness with no customers
in sight, and no telling when he would find any, Tarrant Enterprises,
Ltd., was in business again. Jeff took his watch out, saw that it had
stopped, set it for nine o'clock, and wound it.

He might be an hour, two hours, or three hours, off. It made no
difference. Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., guided its fortunes by the
circumstances of the moment and not by the dial of a watch or clock. Any
hour of the twenty-four, or any minute of any hour, might present a
precious and never to be repeated opportunity. Therefore, it was better
to be alert for what the moment might present than to depend too heavily
on any timepiece.

Last night he had been in too much of a hurry to think of eating, and
when he had finally put what he considered an adequate distance between
Cressman and himself, he had been too tired. Now he took the remainder
of bread and cheese from his pack and divided both in half.

"Chow time!" he said grandly. "Here, Pal, a wonderful breakfast!"

Pal gulped his portion. Jeff ate more slowly, and when he had finished
the last crumb he was completely serene. It mattered not at all that he
was completely out of food or that it was an unknown distance to the
next place where he would be able to buy more. By all means, the future
should be carefully weighed, but the future was a great and shining
promise and lack of food a small inconvenience.

"Let's go!" he said happily.

A little breeze sang to him, the sun warmed him, and he was completely
cheerful as he resumed his journey. This was a new and fresh experience,
and as such it was to be treasured. Pal ran a hundred feet ahead, slowed
to a walk, and further slowed to a stalk so deliberate that he moved at
a snail's pace. He looked questioningly back at Jeff.

Jeff wrinkled his brows. In town, or even near other people, Pal had not
moved more than a yard away. Here he would leave Jeff and that was
entirely understandable. Naturally he would feel freer in the
wilderness, but what did he want? Jeff halted.

"What's up, Pal?"

The dog stared hard at a copse of brush and for a moment Jeff remained
still. Then he advanced slowly.

"Hope I'm not doing it wrong," he murmured. "I know you're trying to
tell me something, but I'm too dumb to understand your language."

Pal stayed perfectly rigid until Jeff was within five feet, then went in
to flush two grouse from the brush. They winged thunderously up and
drummed away, and a great light dawned on Jeff.

If Pal had not had a former master, he would not have been wearing a
collar, and obviously that master had lived partly by hunting. Scenting
the grouse, Pal had been asking Jeff, as plainly as a dog can ask
anything, whether or not he cared to shoot them. Jeff petted Pal and
heaped praise upon him.

"Good dog!" he exclaimed. "That's the boy!"

Pal sighed ecstatically because he had pleased his master. He had
already helped Jeff out of two difficult situations, and for that alone
he deserved loyalty. Now it became evident that he would not be wholly
dead weight. Jeff, who had learned something about dogs, reviewed what
he knew.

There were various dogs for various purposes. Thus the bull was for
fighting, the dachshund went into burrows and dragged out whatever
sought a refuge there, the setter hunted game birds, the hound trailed,
etc. Occasionally there was an intelligent mongrel that combined the
functions of two or more such specialists. It was difficult to imagine
Pal crawling into burrows, but he had already proven his ability to hunt
birds. Would he do anything else?

It occurred to Jeff that he knew little about his new partner and until
now he had had little chance to do any probing. Now there was every
chance.

"Heel!" he ordered.

Pal fell in beside him, walking at his left and just far enough away so
there was no danger of collision. Jeff was delighted; he had already
discovered that Pal responded perfectly to other commands and must have
had much training. Five minutes later there came an interruption.

Buzzing angrily through the trees, a bee made straight for Jeff. It
danced up and down in front of his face, seeking a place to light. Jeff
swiped at it with his right hand.

When he did, Pal bounded forward. Swift as a deer, and as graceful, he
raced among the trees. With seeming lack of effort, he leaped high, the
better to see what lay about him. Finding nothing, he looked back
perplexedly.

"Come on," Jeff coaxed. "Come on, Pal!"

Pal returned and Jeff petted him fondly. Now he knew something else
about the dog. A hand waved forward was Pal's signal to look for game.
Jeff stored the knowledge away, pending the time it might be useful.

Pal ranged ahead and on both sides. Jeff strode on. The mountain had
been steep, but its summit was a broad plateau covered with pine forest,
and somewhere in the distant peaks that Jeff could see must lie the town
of Smithville. Sooner or later he would get there, and if he needed two
or three days, that was all right. He was enjoying the hike, and the
farther away Smithville was, the farther he'd be from Cressman.

He stopped to rest at a pond that fed a stream and saw trout in the
clear waters. Removing his pack, he opened the right compartment, and
took from it a fishing line and a box of hooks. He tied a hook to the
line, cut a pole from a copse of willows growing beside the pond, kicked
a rock over and gathered up the fat worms beneath it, baited, and cast.

A dozen trout rushed the bait. One got it, and Jeff landed him. He
continued to cast until he had nine trout. Jeff dressed them, washed
them, took a grill and salt and pepper from the pack, and cooked his
fish. Pal cleaned up all the heads, all the bones, and four trout. Jeff
ate the rest, smacking his lips over them and entirely happy.

"This," he sighed, "is the way to live!"

They descended into a valley and were crossing a field when a rabbit
flushed in front of them. White tail flashing, it streaked through the
grass. Jeff waved his right arm and Pal raced forward. So effortlessly
that he almost seemed to float, he overtook the fleeing rabbit and
snatched it up. The rabbit dangling from his jaws, he trotted back and
laid his game in Jeff's hand.

Jeff laughed in sheer delight. Almost always he canvassed the back
country, because that was the only place where, usually, he could be
pretty sure of doing good business. But he had been so interested in his
customers that he had had little time for the wilderness. Now there was
an opportunity to see and observe, and he liked everything around him.
He still wanted to wander, but if he ever did settle down, it would be
in such a place.

The two camped that night in another grove of pines, not knowing where
they were and not caring, and Jeff broiled the rabbit. It was stringy
and tough, but hunger proved a powerful sauce and when Jeff chewed and
swallowed the last few shreds of meat he felt as though he had partaken
of princely fare.

"I wouldn't mind if this went on for a long while!" he told the
contented Pal. "I like it almost as much as you do!"

He arranged a fire to reflect against a fallen tree trunk, slept soundly
all night, and awakened with dawn. There was nothing for breakfast, but
there had been nothing for a lot of breakfasts and it made little
difference. Sooner or later they would eat, and this morning it was
sooner.

No more than four hundred yards from their camp they reached a brawling
little stream that raced frantically downslope. Again Jeff strung his
tackle and caught trout. He laid them in the grill and was about to
build a fire when Pal growled.

It was a sound so soft that nothing more than a few feet away would have
heard it. Jeff looked quickly at the dog and glanced around the forest.
He saw nothing. Pal was on all fours, straining into the wind, and he
growled again. Again Jeff found nothing. Leaving the pack and fish, Jeff
stole to a big pine about thirty feet away and crouched behind it. He
whispered,

"Down!"

Pal lay down and Jeff continued to watch. Two minutes later he saw a man
coming through the forest.

Very tall and very thin, the man was dressed in a sun-faded shirt from
which half of the right sleeve was missing. Protruding from it, what
could be seen of his right arm had been scorched by so much sun that it
was almost black. His left sleeve was tied at the wrist. As dilapidated
as the shirt, his gray trousers ended six inches above scuffed shoes,
and an expanse of naked leg showed that he wore no socks. A luxuriant
beard covered his face, and curly black hair dangled over his ears and
down the back of his head.

In many parts of the country Jeff had seen other men who might have been
this one's twin. Obviously a hillbilly, he carried a carbine as though
it were a part of him.

He lingered behind a pine about fifty yards from Jeff's pack and for a
full minute he regarded it closely. Then, making no noise whatever, he
approached and prodded the pack with his foot. As he looked curiously at
the grill of trout, Jeff spoke.

"That's mine, stranger."

The man whirled, shouldered the carbine, and put it down again. Jeff
rose. Bristling, his lips slightly lifted, Pal stayed very near. Pal
knew what Jeff could not; the man was Barr Whitney and presently he
spoke.

"I wa'nt goin' to tetch it."

"I know that." Jeff had a customer. "I can see that you're an honest
man. But I thought I'd better make sure first."

"Right smart idea."

Barr Whitney looked swiftly at Pal and glanced back at Jeff. His eyes
revealed nothing, but he kept the carbine down. Expecting a flow of
questions, Jeff was momentarily disconcerted when his visitor did not
speak. Jeff glanced at the knife on his belt.

With a six-inch blade, the point of the knife was thrust into a
deer-skin sheath and there was a six-inch guard that protected the
cutting edge. Sparkling keen, the blade probably was made out of an old
file and fitted with an ingenious hilt of deer antler. Jeff watched the
knife for only a split second. Homemade, it was the work of an artist
and Jeff knew of lowlanders who would pay a good price for it. But he
must not let the stranger know this. Barr Whitney remained silent and
Jeff said nothing. Often it was productive of the best results to fit
his own mood to that of a potential customer.

Jeff flicked his pack open, took from it a clasp knife that was almost a
small tool chest within itself, removed the trout from the grill, and
arranged them on a slab of bark. He became absorbed in the grill.
Opening the file on the clasp knife, he filed a sharp point from the
grill's wire handle.

He closed the file, opened a long, pointed blade, and cut the fishes'
heads off. As he did so, he brushed the grill with his trousers, caught
a loose thread which was always kept purposely loosened, and snipped it
off with the scissors that the clasp knife also contained. Carefully he
worked with the awl blade, poking the cut thread back into place.

Barr Whitney watched silently, then said, "Give me leave to look at it."

"Sure."

Without looking at the other, Jeff gave him the knife. He started a
fire, laid the trout back on the grill, and started cooking them. Jeff
seasoned the fish and asked, "Had breakfast?"

"Yup."

Jeff gave half the trout to Pal and gravely stripped the flesh from his
own share. He gave Pal the stripped bones, went down to the stream, dug
a handful of sand from it, and scrubbed the grill clean. Barr Whitney
was still opening and closing the blade, scissors, awl, screwdriver,
file, and fork that folded into the clasp knife's stag handle. He spoke,

"Good knife."

"Yeah," Jeff agreed.

"How much?"

"Six dollars."

Silence followed. Jeff, who had guessed that Barr Whitney was as likely
to have six thousand as six dollars, made up his pack.

The other spoke again, "You swap?"

"Maybe."

"For what?"

"Your rifle."

The other jumped as though stung. Jeff, who knew that it's as easy to
trade a hillbilly out of his hand as to separate him from his rifle,
continued to work calmly. The pack, never cumbersome, could be made so
when he wanted to gain time.

Barr Whitney asked, "Trade knives?"

"Let's see yours."

Stripping the knife from his belt, Barr handed it to Jeff. Betraying
nothing of what he thought, Jeff unsheathed the homemade weapon.
Razor-sharp, it was exquisitely balanced and so finely made that blade
of steel and hilt of horn flowed into each other as smoothly and as
naturally as two placid creeks mingle their waters. Ordinarily Jeff was
able to do little in towns and cities. But he could if he had
merchandise like this to offer. Aside from being highly practical, the
knife was a collector's item. Jeff handed it back.

"Guess not."

"What do ye want?"

"Two knives like that."

Smirking faintly, Barr Whitney thrust a hand inside his shirt and
brought out the twin to the first knife. Obviously he'd been wearing it
in a shoulder sheath. He dropped both knives beside Jeff and for the
first time there was a change in his expression. His eyes were gleeful,
as though he'd been too sharp for a peddler, and he clutched the clasp
knife firmly.

Jeff said in pretended disappointment, "Guess I talked myself out of
that one."

"Guess you did."

"Well, I do sometimes. Which way is Smithville?"

Barr Whitney pointed down a valley. "Thar."

"How far?"

"A piece."

Without further comment, Barr Whitney turned and strode into the forest.
Jeff shouldered his pack and looked at Pal. The dog stood erect, still
faintly bristled as he looked after the departing man and Jeff wondered
why. He shrugged. Some people just naturally roused a dog to anger and
it was not important. Jeff started toward Smithville.

Ike had spoken highly of Smithville, and in Ike's eyes its virtue lay in
the fact that people there minded their own business. What Jeff had seen
bore that out. Hillbillies were independent, not at all inclined to
meddle in the affairs of others or to having their own investigated.
Scornful of anyone who wore an officer's badge, they were quick to take
violent action if what they considered their personal rights were
violated. But usually they did not bother those who let them alone.

Jeff strolled in the direction Barr Whitney had indicated. Somewhere
ahead lay Smithville, and Barr Whitney had given him a completely new
idea. This could not be a wealthy land if the man Jeff had met was any
indication of its riches. Shut off from the world and with little money,
the hill people must of necessity do for themselves, and few of them
were satisfied to have everything slipshod. It naturally followed that
they would have brought handicraft to a high perfection. Jeff planned as
he walked.

Seldom had Jeff even tried to peddle in any town larger than Cressman;
in big cities he could do no business at all. But not all of the people
in cities were contented with the monotonous sameness of the stamped and
stereotyped products available to them. They had lost the art of
handicraft themselves, but some still appreciated it and were able to
pay for it. On the other hand, there was an excellent chance that the
inhabitants of these mountains, lacking the money to buy city goods,
would be eager to trade for them. Jeff began to whistle.

"Pal," he said happily, "maybe, just maybe, Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd.,
is about to become an even bigger business!"

Pal was padding ahead, glancing from side to side and making eager
little excursions into the brush and forest. This was his country. Times
without number he had walked through these same woods with Johnny
Blazer. Returning excited him. He went from a boulder to a patch of
brush, and from there to a stump. His tail wagged constantly as once
again he saw all the old landmarks that were so familiar and so dear.
Not understanding, Jeff wondered.

They came to a foot path. Jeff followed Pal down the path, not knowing
where it led but sure that it would take them somewhere. If it did not
bring them to Smithville, it would certainly lead to some house whose
inhabitants could tell him exactly how to get there, and Jeff was in no
hurry. He was naturally footloose and the woods were free. Jeff knew a
mounting disinclination to go to Smithville at once. It would suit him
better to camp in the open again tonight.

The path joined a road. There were wagon tracks, hoof prints, and even
tire tracks left by venturesome drivers of automobiles. Jeff came to a
sure sign of the latter, a blown tire lying beside the road, and shook a
sympathetic head. He did not share the views of those who proclaimed
cars a passing fad. They would be the conveyance of the future if only
because they could travel as far in one hour as a horse could in three.
Their many faults were sure to be corrected.

Pal frolicked like a puppy, ears shaking and tail wagging as he bounced
around with a wide canine grin on his mouth. When he came to another dim
foot path leading out of the woods, he halted to look inquiringly back
at his master. Hesitantly--he had not yet had any assurance that Jeff
wanted to visit it--he looked longingly toward Johnny Blazer's cabin.

Wondering what Pal wanted now, Jeff halted beside him. The cabin was
hidden by trees; from this distance no part of it could be seen. Then a
puff of wood smoke drifted to Jeff's nostrils and the cabin betrayed
itself. With Pal dancing eagerly ahead, he started up the path.

Fifty yards from the road, he came to Johnny Blazer's cabin and halted
uncertainly. The place looked abandoned. Of the two windows he could
see, a pane of glass was missing from each. Still, smoke drifted from
the chimney. Obviously someone was living in the cabin.

Jeff knocked on the door. Nobody answered. He knocked again, and when
there was no response, he walked in.

A homemade chair with one broken leg lay upended on the floor. There
were a few broken dishes, a stove, scattered papers and dust. Wind blew
through empty panes where glass had been. About to go farther in for a
closer inspection, Jeff was halted by a near hysterical command.

"All right, mister! Raise both hands and raise 'em high!"

"Certainly," Jeff agreed pleasantly. "Anything to oblige."

Jeff raised both hands and heard, "Turn around!"

He turned to confront the yawning muzzles of a double-barreled eight
gauge shotgun. Holding it and dwarfed by it, but never flinching, was a
blazing-eyed boy who could not possibly be more than ten years old.




5. DAN


The boy stood about ten feet away, near a pot-bellied wood stove behind
which he probably had been hiding when Jeff came in. His clothing was
rumpled, but at the same time it was fairly new and not the faded
hand-me-downs that were to be expected on ten-year-olds around
Smithville. His face and hands were dirty, and straight black hair that
had once been well-groomed tumbled all over his head.

Jeff knew a surge of pity. Never, in hill or any other country, should a
ten-year-old stand so. It was not right that any youngster's eyes should
spark with such unbridled fury, or that any child should have the
complete willingness to kill that was so evident in this one. At the
same time, Jeff felt something else. The youngster had control of
himself and the shotgun did not waver. But taut lips seemed ready to
tremble and tears lingered behind angry eyes.

It was as though the boy had taken up burdens which were far too heavy,
but which he was determined to carry, even while he longed for a
friendly arm to help him and a sympathetic ear to which he might tell
his story. And somehow, in spite of his anger, quality was evident
within him.

Jeff said gently, "Put your gun down, son."

"Tell me what you're doing here! _With my pop's dog!_"

Jeff was astounded. "Your pop's dog?"

"That's him! That's Buster!"

Hearing the name, Pal flattened both ears and wagged his tail. He looked
at the boy without going near him. Jeff tried to collect his thoughts.

"I found him a long ways from here. Clear over beyond Cressman."

Uncertainty stole some of the boy's fury. "You--you did?"

"That's right."

"Who are you?"

"My name's Jeff Tarrant and I'm a peddler. Put your gun down."

"Well--" He lowered the shotgun. Two tears broke from his eyes and he
shook them off with an angry whirl of his head. Jeff extended his hand.

"Maybe you'd better let me have the gun."

"It--it isn't loaded. I didn't have any money to buy shells!"

Jeff said gently, "Taking a bit of a chance, weren't you? What if you'd
pulled it on someone with a gun that was loaded?"

"I--I don't know."

"This is really your dad's dog?"

"I ought to know him."

"He doesn't seem especially happy to see you."

"I--I only saw him twice. Last time a year ago. But it's my pop's!"

"Who are you, son?"

"Dan Blazer."

"And where is your pop?"

"Dead!" Dan said fiercely. "Shot by those--Whitneys!"

He whirled so that his back was to Jeff, put both grimy hands to his
eyes, and shook with sobs. Pal looked worried. Jeff strode swiftly
across the floor, knelt beside the sobbing youngster, gathered him up,
and sat with him on a homemade wooden chair whose back and seat were of
laced buckskin. Laying his head on Jeff's shoulder, Dan sobbed
unrestrainedly. Then he wriggled, turned away quickly so that Jeff could
not see his face, and slid to the floor. He wiped his eyes with a
handkerchief that was almost as dirty as his face. When he turned again
to Jeff, he was calmer.

"Cry baby!" he accused himself. "Big cry baby!"

"Come here, Dan," Jeff said gently.

"What do you want?"

"To talk to you, and I've seen men cry over a whole lot less."

"Really?" The thought seemed a reassuring one.

"Really. Where is your mother?"

"She died when I was--When I was just a child." He spoke quietly. His
mother had died so long ago that all pangs were gone.

"I see. What were you doing when these--uh--when these Whitneys shot
your pop?"

"I was in Ackerton." Dan named the nearest city.

Again Jeff was surprised. "What were you doing there?"

"Pop sent me to Jackson School there. Said he was a hill man but he
didn't want me to be one. He said there were better things."

"_Hm-m._ How did you get here?"

"Walked," Dan answered matter-of-factly.

"Didn't anyone try to stop you?"

"A policeman did before I was out of Ackerton. I got away, and after
that I walked at night."

"Do you have any relatives?"

"I'm the only one left in the Blazer family and I aim to kill every
danged Whitney! That way I'll be sure to get the one who got Pop!"

Jeff said drily, "Nothing like being thorough. You're sure the Whitneys
did get your pop?"

"They're the ones he fought most with."

"But he fought with others too?"

"Well, yes."

"Hadn't we better do a bit of thinking before we shoot all the
Whitneys?"

"We? Why do you want to mix in?"

"I've got your pop's dog, haven't I? That gives me the right, doesn't
it?"

Dan looked doubtfully at Jeff. "Do you really think so?"

"Certainly I think so, but let's not go off half-cocked. This is going
to take a bit of figuring. We can't just wander around leaving corpses
all over the woods."

"What would you do?"

"Find who really shot your pop and get him."

"I never thought of that," Dan admitted.

"Let's talk about it over a good meal. That sound all right?"

"Great but--I'm down to corn meal mush."

"Tonight we'll have something else," Jeff decided. "I was just going in
to Smithville to buy grub. Do you like pork chops?"

"Oh, boy!" Dan licked his lips. "But why should you buy me anything?"

"If we're partners," Jeff said firmly, "we share and share alike. You
can understand that. We're already sharing the cabin."

Confidence and hope warmed Dan's eyes. He smiled, and Jeff reflected
that that was the way he should always look.

"Uh--Jeff."

"What's up?"

"Do you think you could bring some shells for this shotgun?"

"On one condition. The gun isn't shot at anything, or anybody, unless
both of us know about it."

"All right," Dan agreed.

Pal went to the door with him. Jeff shoved the dog back, shut the door,
and struck into the gathering twilight. He shook a bewildered head.

Was it a year ago, or only a few days, that he had been the footloose
owner-manager-working force of Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd.? Why was he
burdened now with a dog that few other people wanted and a boy that
nobody wanted very much? Why hadn't he left both where he found them and
accepted just his own responsibilities? He shook his head again and
murmured to himself, "Darn fool! Tarrant, of all the pinheaded things
you've ever done, these take the hand-polished railroad spike!"

At the same time he knew that he couldn't have done otherwise. The dog
had helped him, therefore the dog must not be abandoned. Nor could Jeff
simply leave Dan to any fate that awaited him. The only man left in the
Blazer family, Dan had walked all the way from Ackerton--more than a
hundred miles--to avenge his father. He intended to make sure he did it
by shooting all the Whitneys, and he would die if he raised the gun to
the first one. It was a staggering situation and how should he, Jeff,
solve it?

Again Jeff gave himself over to the idea that first things must be first
and walked into Smithville.

It was a small town, with perhaps four hundred inhabitants, and as
nearly as there could be such a thing, it was a place where the outer
world intruded on the hills. Smithville was about half-civilized. The
streets were dirt and rutted, but instead of the log houses in which
hill families abode, the dwellings here were frame. The Smithville Inn
was largely a place for those who wished merriment in its louder forms,
and there was one store. Wagons piled high with logs offered mute
testimony as to the way the town's residents earned a livelihood but
there were no horses to be seen. Doubtless, with night approaching, the
teamsters had stabled their draft animals.

Jeff halted in front of the store, a rather large building whose front
end consisted of numerous small panes of glass inserted in wooden
frames. There was the legend "Abel Tarkman, General Store," and beneath
it was printed, "Post Office Too."

Knowing before he did so what he would find, Jeff entered. Isolated
stores such as this one catered to all the wants of many people. As a
result, they had to stock a little bit of everything that was practical,
and Abel Tarkman's store was no exception. Counters stretched its full
length. Pails, straps, lanterns and bits of harness, were suspended from
rafter beams. There was a rack of hoes, rakes, spades and other garden
tools, but no plows or harrows; this was not a farm community. Jeff saw
a shelf of drugs, a vast assortment of chewing and smoking tobaccos, a
whole rack of vari-calibered firearms and ammunition, a food counter, a
dry goods counter, and toward the back--a small cubby hole of unpainted
lumber that was labeled "Post Office."

Two other people, a stocky man with a badge, and a woman, were in the
store. Jeff stood aside while the proprietor, evidently Abel Tarkman
himself, served the woman. A small, quiet man with an inoffensive
manner, he wrapped the woman's purchases and looked inquiringly at Jeff.

"Four pounds of pork chops," Jeff said.

He ordered a dozen eggs, two loaves of bread, a three-pound slab of
bacon, two quarts of milk, a pound of coffee, a peck of potatoes, and
mindful of the youngster at the cabin, a head of lettuce and a bunch of
carrots. To these purchases he added a broom, four panes of glass to
replace those broken out of the cabin, putty with which to hold them, a
lantern, a gallon of kerosene, and finally, "A half dozen eight gauge
shotgun shells."

"I've nothing but number fours in eight gauge."

"They'll do and I want to stick them in my pocket."

Abel Tarkman looked doubtfully at the rest. "It's a lot to carry."

"Put it in gunny sacks. I'll manage."

Tarkman reached beneath the counter for a gunny sack and said amiably,
"Fishing?"

"Loafing," Jeff answered. "Nothing strenuous."

"Staying long?"

"I don't know."

"Where you staying?"

"Blazer's cabin."

Abel Tarkman's jaw tautened and he said no more. Jeff frowned. It was as
though something cold had crept between them, and why should the mention
of Blazer bring that about? Without speaking any more, the storekeeper
totaled Jeff's bill on a piece of brown wrapping paper and Jeff paid in
cash. Ordinarily he'd have tried to barter, but, though the pack was
full, he still had ideas about trading with the hill people.

Shouldering two half-filled gunny sacks, Jeff left the store. The sun
had set, but enough light remained so that he could see. Between two
far-spaced houses, and a sufficient distance from the store, Jeff took
the six shotgun shells from one pocket and a knife from another.
Carefully he pried the wadding from each shell and poured the shot out.
Just as carefully replacing the shot with tightly-rolled bits of paper
that he tore from his packages, he re-assembled the shells. Not
forgotten was the fury of which Dan was capable. He had promised Jeff
that he'd do no shooting on impulse, but Jeff wanted no accidents should
Dan encounter a Whitney when he had the shotgun in his hands.

Jeff was reassembling the last shell when, his badge shining in the
day's last light, the man he'd seen in the store came to and paused
beside him.

"Howdy."

"Howdy."

"My name's Ellis," the constable said. "Bill Ellis and I'm constable
here."

"Jeff Tarrant," Jeff extended his hand. They shook and Bill Ellis asked,
"You said you're staying at Blazer's cabin?"

"That's right."

"See anything of a youngster thereabouts?"

"You mean Dan Blazer? Yes, he's there."

"Then I guess I'd better walk out with you and pick him up. Poor little
tad's all alone in the world."

"No, he isn't. I'm taking care of him."

Bill Ellis was suspicious. "Since when?"

Jeff managed to sound more than a little astonished. "Didn't he tell
you?"

"All he did was walk through Smithville yesterday with a little sack
over his shoulder and a shotgun big's a cannon in his arm. All he said
was that he would meet somebody at the cabin. I waited this long to see
if he really would."

Jeff gave thanks for this bit of coincidence. "I met him at the cabin
and he's all right. He's getting everything a youngster should have,
though of course if your official duties call for so doing, you may take
him. Naturally, I'll have to go with him and bring him right back, so
there may be a bit of trouble. You were going to take him to an
orphanage, weren't you?"

"Where else?"

"Ah, yes," Jeff agreed. "Where else? Splendid place, an orphanage. Ideal
for those with no one to whom they might turn."

"I got a letter from some school in Ackerton. Said the kid left there
right after his dad's funeral and hasn't been seen since. Said they
thought he'd come here and I should be on the watch for him."

"An error," Jeff murmured. "Why don't you write to the school?"

"Maybe I'd better."

"Do that," Jeff urged. "How long does it take a letter to get to
Ackerton and a reply back here?"

"About a week."

Jeff made up his mind to visit Ackerton before the week was out--and
maybe Bill Ellis needn't send his letter.

"I'm going to Ackerton," Jeff said. "I'll bring written confirmation
from the school if you want it."

"Well, if you're going there--"

"Let's leave it that way," Jeff said quickly. "If you care to check in
the meanwhile, you can ask Dan. Who killed his father, anyway?"

"If I knew, he'd be in jail."

"Haven't you any ideas?"

"Sure I have. It's one of maybe twenty-five or thirty people."

"Have you questioned them?"

"How well are you acquainted around here?"

"I just got in."

"That explains it then."

"Explains what?"

"Your not knowing why I haven't questioned twenty-five or thirty people.
Let me tell--"

Bill Ellis spoke at length of those who lived in Smithville and those
who abode in the mountains surrounding it. The town dwellers, with few
exceptions, were industrious people who were glad to work for the lumber
company and to accept a weekly pay check. They seldom caused trouble.

Those residing in the hills were a different breed. They worked when
they felt like it, which was not often, and few of them could bear the
yoke of a steady job for more than three weeks at a time. They did for
themselves and took their living from the wilderness. Of late years,
with hunters and fishermen finding their way into the hills, guiding
them had become a good source of income. But the only reason the hill
people were willing to guide was because they usually spent all their
time hunting or fishing anyway. They made their own laws, lived by their
own code, and united only when outside forces threatened any part of
their way of life.

When they fought, they fought hard and often for little reason. For many
years a feud, with the Whitneys on one side and the Paynters on the
other, had raged. It had started, of all things, over a muskrat stolen
from Jed Paynter's trap. His own judge, jury, and executioner, Jed had
shot Enos Whitney. Two days later Jed was found with a bullet in his
head and, though everybody knew one of the Whitneys had shot him, nobody
had ever proven it. Finally, with four Paynters and two Whitneys dead,
the remainder of the Paynters left the hills. No officer had ever proven
anything. One who'd gone into the hills had simply disappeared.

Bill Ellis knew only that someone had shot Johnny Blazer. But who?
Johnny had done well trapping, hunting medicinal roots, and guiding and
boarding hunters and fishermen. There was not a man in the hills who
wouldn't have liked what Johnny had and not a man who wouldn't have
quarreled with him about it. But to go into the hills with wholesale
accusations would do nothing except rouse fury. Accusing, or even
suspecting, whoever had not shot Johnny would be insult of the deadliest
sort and inevitably bring on shooting.

Far from being interested in local quarrels, the outside world seldom
even heard of them and little help could be expected from anyone. If
Bill Ellis knew who had shot Johnny, he would go get him. But he had to
know and had to have indisputable proof before he moved. He'd already
done everything he could and was no nearer a solution than he had been
two months ago.

Jeff listened intently, and realized that he was hearing the truth. If
it was more extreme than what he already knew about mountain dwellers,
Smithville was more isolated than any other place he had ever visited.
Jeff thought of the youngster in the cabin. Dan Blazer had attended a
city school, but his were hill blood and hill traditions. He had asked
no one to help him avenge his father, but vengeance was a point of
honor.

Jeff gritted his teeth. Dan was a child. It would be the essence of
simplicity, using force if necessary, to place him in an orphanage or
make him go back to school. But it would solve nothing. A boy now, Dan
would be a man. When he was, he'd be back here in the hills. There would
be no forgetting.

"Where was Johnny found?" Jeff asked.

"Between here and his cabin. If you noticed a big sycamore right beside
the road, he was lying against the trunk."

"Who found him?"

"Couple of fellows from Ackerton. They were fishing back in the
mountains and they brought Johnny here. Mike Severance, he does first
aid work for the lumber company, patched him up and they took him to
Delview. He died in the hospital there. Bullet went right through him."

"Where is he buried?"

"In Delview." Bill Ellis narrowed his eyes. "Who are you?"

"A peddler," Jeff answered honestly. "I thought I could do some business
here."

"You will, too. Now tell me straight why that kid came back."

"I told you. He's with me."

"We'll leave it that way," the constable promised, "at least until you
bring word from Ackerton. But if you have any ideas except peddling,
you'd better get some shells that are loaded with something besides
paper wads."

"I'll think about it."

Bill Ellis guessed, "The kid toted the gun. Does he want the shells?"

"That's about it."

"You aim to watch him?"

"Why do you think I'm giving him blanks?"

"Why do you bother with him?"

"I'm an orphan myself. I could have used somebody to look after me when
I was ten years old."

"For pete's sake, be careful!"

"I'll keep that in mind."

"You know where to find me if you need advice," Bill Ellis promised.
"But if you start any half-baked ruckus, you finish it. I've a wife and
two kids to think about. Well, maybe I'll be seeing you."

Pocketing the shells and shouldering the gunny sacks, Jeff walked
swiftly back up the road. He halted when he came to the big sycamore. It
was a monstrous tree that shaded the road and murmured gently as the
evening breeze danced through its branches. There was nothing whatever
to show that a man had died violently beside it. But a man had died
here, and Jeff looked quizzically at the tree. If it could talk, it
probably could tell who had killed Johnny Blazer.

He left the tree and hurried along. Trees did not talk and--Jeff was
deep in thought until he came to the cabin. There he brushed his frowns
away and forced a sparkle back into his eyes. Dan was a ticklish
problem, and like all such, he had to be handled delicately. There must
not be even one wrong move. Jeff burst into the cabin with a cheerful,
"Poke the fire up, Dan! There's pork chops for supper!"




6. VISITOR


Sleeping in the same corner where he had slept so many times, Pal moaned
softly and twitched his paws. He dreamed that things were as they had
once been and that he was hunting grouse with Johnny Blazer. Pacing
ahead, Pal scented a grouse and showed Johnny where it was. There came
the shotgun's blast. The dream faded and Pal woke up.

Instantly things resumed a normal perspective. The scent of Jeff Tarrant
filled the cabin and mingled with it was the odor of Dan Blazer. Pal
remembered meeting Dan before. Every summer, but never for more than ten
days at a time, Johnny had brought him to the cabin for a visit.

Though Pal liked all children, he saw only an incidental connection
between Johnny and Dan Blazer. However, if only because Johnny had once
welcomed the boy and Jeff was now welcoming him, Pal was happy to accept
Dan too and to include him in the select circle of intimates who
deserved every courtesy. Next to Jeff, he would respect Dan.

Though his nose told him that all was well, Pal did not go back to sleep
at once. The dream had been a very vivid one and it brought a surge of
memories that were strengthened by being back at his old home. The past
remained a puzzle. Pal had never understood why Johnny had disappeared,
he still did not understand, and he was troubled because of it.

Having a dog's instinct for time, he knew that the night was about half
gone, and because he was familiar with the habits of humans, he was
aware that Jeff and Dan probably would not get out of bed before
sunrise. Equally at home in daylight or darkness, Pal had never known
why people preferred to spend the night hours in a cabin or shelter but
he had never questioned their doing so. They were humans. He was a dog.
Therefore, it always befitted him to shape himself to their ways and
never even think that they should bend to his.

Sometimes Johnny had taken him out at night to hunt coon, and Pal rather
hoped that Jeff would do the same because he liked to run at night. But
it would be all right if Jeff did not.

After a short time, needing contact more intimate than his nose offered,
Pal rose and padded across the wooden floor. He ascended the steps,
walking quietly because experience had taught him to be quiet. Pal
existed to please his master and his whole life must be shaped to that
purpose. There were no delights which, directly or indirectly, were not
connected with that. When Johnny had patted his head and praised him,
Pal had quivered with joy. Now he reacted in the same fashion to Jeff
and his life was a full one.

He ascended the steps, walked to the bunks that Jeff and Dan occupied,
sniffed gently at each, and went back to his place in the corner. He had
made doubly sure that Jeff was still present and that partially
satisfied him. But because the dream and the cabin brought Johnny back
to him, he was still able to sleep only fitfully. Pal recalled last
night.

He had been very worried when Jeff went away and left him in the cabin.
Ordinarily it would have been routine, for Johnny had often left him
alone. But a great fear had grown out of Johnny's death. Pal had seen
him leave and been sure he'd come back, but he never had. Now he was
fearful that Jeff might not return. Dan, who understood, had tried to
give him comfort.

"He'll come back. Don't you worry. He'll come back."

But Pal would not rest until Jeff's return and then he was happy again.
He wagged his tail because the two in the cabin greeted each other
gladly, and he drooled at the odor of frying pork chops. Eating his
share, Pal looked puzzled when Dan started to wash the dishes and Jeff
began to work with the broom.

In Pal's opinion the cabin was satisfactory, and he had never understood
the quirks of humans that kept them forever doing something that did not
look like fun and seemed unnecessary. But Pal resigned himself to the
cleaning up. He flattened his ears and retreated into a corner. He
dodged from place to place whenever the broom came near, and relaxed in
his own corner only when Jeff finally put the broom down and started
replacing the broken window panes. Unoccupied, and thought deserted, the
cabin had been rifled of many things belonging to Johnny. But there were
enough dishes and tableware left, for Johnny had kept a great store of
it to provide for his guests.

Dan yawned and Jeff sent him to bed, but the young peddler worked for a
long while afterward. Finally, giving Pal a pat on the head, he too
sought one of the upstairs bunks.

Now Pal raised his head at frequent intervals. He had a great yearning
to visit again the sycamore tree--the last place where he'd seen Johnny,
but the door was locked. If the customary routine was followed, it would
not be opened until Jeff and Dan got up. Rising, Pal walked nervously
around the cabin, sniffing at all the objects he knew so well. He went
to his corner and did not leave it again until dawn's thin light turned
the cabin's black windows to pale gray.

He heard a bunk creak as Jeff moved, and raised expectant ears. For a
short interval there was silence. Then came Dan's sleepy voice.

"You awake, Jeff?"

"Nope. I'm sound asleep."

Pal heard Dan giggle. There were various little noises that accompanied
their getting out of bed and dressing. Tail wagging happily, Pal met
them at the foot of the stairs. He went first to Jeff, who gave him a
pat on the head, then he offered his morning greeting to Dan. These
ceremonies complete, he padded over to stand in front of the door. Jeff
understood.

"I'll let you out."

Pal slipped through the opened door and waited for a while in front of
the cabin. This was his country, but he had not forgotten that it had
rejected him. He had walked safely with Johnny Blazer, but he had been
clubbed and stoned after Johnny was no longer with him. The lesson had
penetrated deeply.

When Pal finally left the cabin, he did not go down the path but went at
once into the brush and walked slowly. Alone, he had better be
careful.... He stopped when he caught the scent of a rabbit that was
hiding in the brush. For a moment he was tempted to chase it because
chasing rabbits was fun. But this morning he had a more urgent mission.
Still walking slowly, nose questing and ears alert, he made his way to
the road and halted in some thick brush beside it. He would not expose
himself on the open road until he knew what lay ahead.

Across the road, and up the opposite slope, a doe and fawn were feeding.
Pal caught the faint odor of grouse, and he knew that a skunk had
wandered that way last night. Later, a fox had minced along.

The nearest human scents were those of Dan and Jeff, and as soon as he
was sure of that, Pal considered himself safe. He ventured into and
moved slowly down the road, but as he drew near the big sycamore he
broke into an eager trot. It was at the sycamore that he had last seen
Johnny Blazer, and there that he had lost all trace of him. Now he
wanted to find if there was anything he might have overlooked.

He had given up all hope of finding Johnny; his long search had
convinced him that his former master would never be found. But not
forgotten, never to be forgotten, was his long association with Johnny,
his love for him, and the good life they had lived together. Pal was
going to the sycamore for the same reason that a human being rereads old
letters written by a dear companion whom he will never see again. Once
more he stopped to read the wind currents and the tracks in the road.
Besides the fox and skunk, only Jeff's scent remained right there.
Therefore Jeff was the only human who had used the road last night. But
Pal caught the fainter scents of Smithville and the people inhabiting
it. They were distant odors and no one was coming. He gave undivided
attention to the sycamore.

Winds had blown and rains had fallen, but Johnny Blazer had bled here
and his scent still lingered. Pal drank long and deeply of it. He made a
little circle, as though the scent should lead him farther. But it ended
at the tree, and the dog came back to sniff again. He moaned softly in
his throat, because his affection for Johnny had been great. But
Johnny's scent ended where it began, at the sycamore. About to cast
again, Pal halted in his tracks.

The morning breeze blew directly from Smithville to him, and the breeze
had told him that nobody was coming. Now that was changed. Clearly Pal
caught the scent of Pete Whitney and he knew that Pete was walking up
the road. The dog bristled, but not because he saw any connection
between Pete and Johnny's disappearance. He knew only that all Whitneys
were enemies and that Pete had been near when Johnny was hurt.

He crouched in the brush, undecided for the moment. If he lay perfectly
still, Pete probably would pass without seeing him. But as the man drew
nearer, Pal's nervousness increased. He decided suddenly that he would
be safer with Jeff.

Pete was just a short distance away when Pal cleared the road in one
bound and raced toward the cabin. The dog knew that he had been seen,
but he did not care. The one dangerous time had been the fleeting
instant he'd needed to cross the road and that was dangerous only
because the road offered no cover. Once in the brush, he could run away
from any man.

He found Dan drawing water from the spring beside the cabin and slowed
to a walk. Because he had run hard, he was panting. He paused very
close to the boy and looked nervously back toward the road. Dan stared
curiously at him.

"What's down there?" he questioned. "What'd you find, Pal?"

The great dog turned toward Dan and wagged his tail as evidence of good
will. But his hackles remained raised as he accompanied the boy into the
cabin. The good smell of frying bacon perfumed the air. Standing over
the stove, Jeff looked around questioningly.

"Isn't that bucket a load for you, Dan?"

"Nah! I can carry it."

Jeff grinned. Most boys were proud of their physical prowess and he had
not offended Dan by offering to draw the water for him. He broke eggs
into the sputtering skillet. Pal growled and Jeff turned again to look.

"What's ailing him?"

"I don't know. He must have smelled something he don't like. When he
came up to me, he was running."

Pal, knowing that Pete Whitney was coming toward the cabin, retreated to
the far end of the room and stood. Still bristling, he showed his teeth.
Jeff was puzzled.

"What's the--?"

"Something's around," Dan said quickly. He looked out of the window.
"Jeff! Pete Whitney's coming!"

Eyes blazing, he looked toward the shotgun. Jeff saw and interpreted his
glance.

"Remember! We're not going off half-cocked."

"Uh--All right."

Jeff opened the door and saw the man standing in front of the cabin.
Pete Whitney's clothing was slipshod, but that alone did not give him
the air he had. Jeff was not able to place it at once. There was
something about him that should not be, something very like a surly
animal. About thirty, Pete had fine blond hair that seemed rooted so
precariously that the slightest wind might blow it away. His unshaven
cheeks were covered with stubble.

Pale blue eyes shifted sideways, and he raised a foot as though about to
run. Yet, at the same time, it was as though he had no intention of
running. As far as Jeff could see, he carried no firearms, but he acted
as though he were armed, and doubtless he was. Mentally, Jeff compared
him to the man he had met yesterday. That man had also been careless of
his clothing and appearance, but there was a strength and character in
his being that was not evident in Pete. Barr Whitney was strong. Pete
was weak.

Jeff asked pleasantly, "Something I can do for you?"

"Nao." Pete spoke with a high nasal twang. "You live here?"

"Since yesterday," Jeff said. "Dan and I are here together."

"I swan!" Pete ejaculated. "I swan!"

Jeff saw that he was obviously frightened. In spite of the fact that he
seemed to be a man who would take fright easily, he might need help.

"Are you in trouble?"

"Nao. It's jest that I was passin' up the raoad an'--an'--" He blurted
out. "I swan I saw Johnny Blazer's big dog!"

Jeff thought swiftly. Why should seeing Johnny Blazer's dog be cause for
such alarm? He asked casually, "Where'd you see him?"

"Down thar on the raoad! I swan--a ha'nt dog!"

Jeff understood and relaxed. Many of the mountain people believed
firmly in haunts, spirits and witchcraft. And everybody around
Smithville had reason to believe that Pal must be dead. With an effort,
Jeff concealed his amusement. A man such as this, thinking Johnny
Blazer's dog dead and coming suddenly upon him, might tremble easily.

"You did see him," Jeff said. "He's here."

"He be?"

For a split second, Pete's eyes lost their lack-luster appearance and
venom flooded them. A cold finger brushed Jeff's spine. Any man able to
look like that was a dangerous one. Jeff thought of his pack and of the
shotgun in its corner. Then he decided that he could handle Pete, and
meanwhile there were the amenities to be observed.

"Had breakfast?"

"Nao."

"Come on in and have some."

Pete shuffled into the cabin. Mouth taut and eyes angry, Dan backed
toward Pal. The dog growled savagely. Jeff's eyes caught Dan's and he
tried to flash a warning. He and Dan had a pact which included no hasty
or ill-timed moves and definitely no shooting of anyone. Jeff spoke
sharply to the dog.

"Stop it, Pal!"

Pal subsided and Pete said nasally, "Blazer allus call't him Buster."

"He's Pal now."

Jeff set a plate of bacon and eggs on the table and put bread and butter
beside it.

"You may as well start, Dan."

Unable completely to erase the anger from his eyes, not speaking, Dan
sat down and began to eat. Jeff put the bacon and eggs he had intended
for himself on another plate. Thoughtfully he set the plate on the other
side of the table, two places away from the furious Dan.

"Here you are, Mr.--?"

"Whitney's the name. Pete Whitney."

"I'm Jeff Tarrant and this is Dan Blazer."

"Yeah?" Interest leaped in Pete's eyes. "Any kin to John?"

"He was my pop!" Dan flared. "That you know very well!"

"Dan, mind your manners!" Jeff remonstrated, putting more bacon and eggs
in the skillet.

"I'm minding them! He knows who my pop was and he knows me!"

Pete, who had been eating as though finishing the meal was a job he had
to complete in a great hurry, put his fork down and bent over his plate.
Again Jeff thought uncomfortably of a hunted animal, and though he could
not see Pete's eyes, he was sure that they were once more venom-ridden.
There was an awkward silence which Pete broke.

"Seems to me I do mind a young'un comin' to see John."

Dan flared again. "Do you also 'mind' that my pop was shot? Maybe you
even know who shot him!"

"Dan!" Jeff thundered.

For a few seconds Pete lingered over his food. Then it was as though he
had thought out a decision which had been hard to make. He speared half
an egg, curled a whole strip of bacon on the end of his fork, shoved
everything into his mouth and began to chew noisily.

"Nao," he said. "I wouldn't knaow who done fer John."

"Dan's upset," Jeff explained. "He didn't realize what he was saying."

An explosive, "I did, too" lingered on Dan's lips and died there when he
caught Jeff's eyes. As the latter turned to lift his own breakfast out
of the skillet, Pete nodded vigorously.

"Likely. Likely. Young'uns do get upsot. What be ye doin' here?"

Jeff said smoothly, "We represent Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., and came
because we thought we could do some business around Smithville."

Pete's shifty eyes found Jeff's pack. "Peddler, huh?"

"Some people call it that."

"Whar'd ye find the dog?"

"Over beyond Cressman. He made himself at home with us."

Jeff put his own plate on the table and began to eat. Pete mopped up the
last of his breakfast with a crust of bread, plopped it into his mouth,
and licked his fingers. That done, he picked up the conversation where
it had been dropped.

"Take care he ain't kil't."

"Take care who isn't killed?"

"The dog. He turned right snarly after Blazer was kil't. Bill Ellis'd a
shot him if he hadn't took a mind to run away."

"Did he hurt anybody?"

"Nao. But he had a mind to."

Pete leaned back, looking at the ceiling and cleaning his teeth with his
tongue. He asked suddenly, "Whar'd ye get the young'un?"

For a moment Jeff fumbled. But Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., had taught
him that it was not a good idea to be at a loss long enough to let
anyone else think too far ahead of him. He said glibly, "Dan was farmed
out to me."

Jeff referred to the common practice of placing with accredited people
who would support them, youngsters who had no other place to turn. Dan
glared. Jeff did not look at him.

Pete Whitney said, "You git a smart lot of work out'en a farmed-out
young'un if you whomp him to it."

Jeff's next words erased Dan's glare. "Dan doesn't need 'whomping.'
We're full partners."

"Aoh."

There was another silence. Finally Pete Whitney asked, "What ye
peddlin?"

"What do you need?"

"I ast you."

"Cash or swap?"

"Swap." Pete looked surprised that anyone should think he had cash.

"What can you swap?"

Pete reached inside his shirt and drew out a knife. It was much cruder
than the works of art Jeff had had from Bart Whitney. But it was sturdy,
and the blade, Jeff thought wryly, was certainly keen enough to
penetrate anything that Pete might have reason to stab. Since there was
a buyer for everything, it stood to reason that there would be a buyer
for Pete's knife. Jeff went to his pack, took out a cheap jackknife, a
compass and a wrapped parcel. He extended the knife.

"I'll swap even for this."

Pete accepted the knife, opened it, tried the blade on the back of his
horny hand, and passed it back.

"Nao. That piddlin' thin'd bend on rabbit fur."

Enjoying himself, as he always did when bartering, Jeff handed the
compass over. Pete looked at it. Puzzled, he glanced back at Jeff.

"Do it tell the hour?"

Dan laughed. Jeff explained. "It's called a compass. See? The needle
always points north. Anyone who carries this can tell any direction at
all."

Pete was honestly astounded. "You mean they's some what cain't?"

"There are some, but I thought you wouldn't be one of them!"

He spoke admiringly, stressing the "you." Sales resistance faded to
nothing if the seller, while convincing the buyer that he was much to be
admired, could at the same time build up the buyer's opinion of himself.
Like a good showman, Jeff had saved his masterpiece for last. He
unwrapped the parcel to reveal a cheap box whose exterior was stamped
with gaudy green dragons. Pete regarded it with narrowed eyes.

"This," Jeff said smoothly, "I offer to very few customers. Now if
you'll just keep your eye on the box--"

Pete obliged, bending so closely that his face was no more than six
inches from the box. Jeff pressed a button. The lid flew open and a
green bellows surmounted by a grinning clown's head sprang up to hit
Pete on the nose. He leaped backward, flung himself from the table and
crouched. Again Jeff thought of an animal. But this time it was a beast
of prey. And it was ready to strike.

The jack that had leaped out of the box quivered on the table, swaying
this way and that. Completely astounded, Pete regarded it for a moment.
Then sheer delight flooded his eyes.

"I swan!"

Jeff said proudly, "Ever see anything like that?"

"Put it back!"

Jeff pressed the jack into place. Uncertainly, still a little fearful of
such magic, Pete came near. He extended a hand and immediately withdrew
it.

"Do it ag'in!"

Jeff pressed the button and the performance was repeated. Sure now that
there was nothing to fear, Pete picked the toy up and looked at it
closely. He pushed the jack down, latched the cover, and pressed the
button. When the clown's head flew up, he tittered nervously.

"I swan!"

"For that I must have two knives."

"Got but one."

Jeff frowned. The jack-in-the-box was a cheap trinket and the knife was
worth four times as much. But Pete considered the jack a very valuable
object and Jeff hoped to do much trading around Smithville. He did not
want to be known for accepting the first thing offered and, besides,
that was bad business. It took all the sport out of trading.

"Have to have something to boot," he said firmly.

"I got this."

From his sagging pocket Pete took a length of braided horsehide. But it
had been so skillfully cured and so expertly braided that it was strong
as rope and pliable as the finest cloth. It would make a wonderful
bridle rein, but Jeff said hesitantly, "I don't know what I'd use it
for."

"Fer tyin' things."

"Well--" Jeff allowed himself to be convinced.

Pete sprung the jack again and again, fascinated by this simple thing
which smacked of magic, because never before had he seen anything like
it. Then, holding his jack-in-the-box as though it were eggshells, he
made the swift transformation from fascinated child to dangerous man.

"Stick to peddlin'," he said shortly, and took his leave.

It was at the same time a threat and a warning and Jeff knew it. For a
moment he sat still, then got up and strolled quietly to the window.
Going down the path, Pete Whitney sprung the jack and his tittering
giggle seemed again to be heard in the room.




7. GRANNY


Absorbed in watching Pete, Jeff was almost unaware when Dan came to
stand beside him. As Pete disappeared, hidden by foliage, he turned away
from the window and came face to face with Dan.

The boy's cheeks were flushed and hot anger burned in his eyes. Both
fists were clenched so tightly that straining knuckles showed white.

Jeff said quietly, "Come out of it, Dan."

"He's a Whitney!"

"Sorry you didn't shoot him?"

"I--It's not that, Jeff. I wasn't thinking very straight when I told you
I aimed to shoot all the Whitneys. It's--Why should a Whitney be in my
pop's cabin?"

"He was at our door and he was hungry."

"Well--Doggonit, Jeff! You talk sense!"

Jeff heaved an inward sigh of relief. Yesterday Dan had not only talked
of killing every Whitney, but he had acted fully capable of doing it.
But yesterday he had been tired, hungry and so terribly alone. Good food
and proper rest had worked a change, but they had not made him forget
why he was here. Nothing would ever do that.

Dan asked, "You think we will get him, don't you?"

"Get who?"

"Whoever killed my pop!"

"Murder can't be hidden, Dan," Jeff spoke with quiet forcefulness, "if
somebody really wants to find it out."

"And we'll find out?"

"We'll find out."

"Then," Dan gritted his teeth, "we'll shoot!"

Jeff said nothing. Dan was too young, too angry, and too steeped in the
traditions of the hills, to think of anything except violent vengeance.
Rather than tell him he was wrong, Jeff hoped to prove it. When they
found whoever had murdered Johnny Blazer--and they must find him if
Dan's tangled path was ever to be straight again--the law could take
over. Jeff hoped that, at the right time, Dan would see such a course as
the proper one. For the present, the less said the better.

"Let's get the place cleaned up and go out trading," Jeff suggested.

"Good!"

Jeff washed dishes while Dan swept the floor, and it made no difference
that it had also been swept last night. Only those with little regard
for themselves were contented to accept dirty surroundings, and one way
to keep dirt from accumulating was to clean often. The cabin in order,
Jeff showed Dan his pack.

Each of its numerous straps, so adjusted that they opened at the flick
of a finger, gave access to one compartment, and within themselves some
of the compartments were further divided. They were also of various
sizes. Obviously it was possible to carry a vast number of pins,
needles, spools of thread, etc., in a somewhat small space. Kitchen
ware, of which Jeff had a considerable store, naturally needed more
room. There was a place for bright ribbons, one for candy, and articles
such as spices and tea were stored by themselves. Jeff had razor blades,
pencils, an assortment of novelties such as the jack-in-the-box, a
variety of small tools, nails, and both wood and metal screws. At the
rear, reached by thrusting the hand through a hidden flap, were six more
knives like the one he'd traded to Barr Whitney, meerschaum pipes,
pocket watches, and a few other valuables that were best kept where they
were not at once available or easily found.

Jeff explained that he always planned to carry as great an assortment as
possible, with very few large articles. The partial bolt of gingham, the
biggest single thing in the pack, he carried, not because there was much
profit in carrying it, but because being able to offer gingham often
provided an opening wedge to other sales.... When he started, he had
operated on a strictly cash basis and had earned a fair amount of money
doing so. Then he had discovered a great truth which had its foundations
in the complexities of human nature. No matter what the article, from
aardvark whiskers to zebra tails, somewhere somebody not only wanted it
but wanted it badly enough to pay well. On the Atlantic Coast, Jeff had
picked up a box of sea shells. In Indiana, he had met a trapper who'd
never seen any sea shells and traded them for a bundle of mink pelts.
Taking the pelts to Chicago, he had sold them to a furrier for more
money than he might have earned in two weeks peddling for cash.

Though everything was precious, or at least desirable, to somebody,
whoever had an abundance of any kind of goods was seldom inclined to
regard it highly. But though they'd always sell for cash, whoever
offered something that they wanted, did not have and would find it
difficult to get, invariably made a better bargain. Jeff cited the knife
and thong he had acquired from Pete Whitney. The jack-in-the-box had
cost fifteen cents, but Jeff would be able to sell the knife for at
least a dollar and twenty cents, and he did not know how much the
horsehide thong would bring. But because Pete thought the
jack-in-the-box such a treasure, and never would have been able to get
one for himself, he hadn't been cheated.

Jeff concluded with the observation that peddlers had to recognize true
value when they saw it. Otherwise they would not be able to remain in
business.

Dan's eyes sparkled. "That sounds like fun!"

"It has its points," Jeff admitted.

"Take me in with you for good!" Dan pleaded. "I want to be a peddler,
too!"

Jeff glanced aside. He had taken this waif under his wing and could not
abandon him. Then he was struck by the happy thought that Dan's request
gave him control over his charge. "We'll see," he evaded the issue.

"Take me! I'll do anything if you'll teach me!"

Jeff asked quickly, "Can I count on that?"

"Anything! Just ask me!"

"You'll do exactly as I say?"

"Try it! What do you want done?"

Jeff grinned. "Right now let's go peddling--and leave the shotgun here."

"But--"

"You said you'd do anything."

"Let's go, Jeff."

With an ease born of long experience, Jeff slipped into the pack.
Knowing that they were going out, Pal leaped to his feet and a doggy
grin framed his jaws. Jeff closed the door but did not lock it. The
cabin had been rifled only because it was thought abandoned. Known to be
occupied, it was safe. The hill men might use force to get what they
wanted, or even kill another man for it, but petty pilfering was beneath
them.

The sun was warm without being too warm, and a breeze fanned the cheeks
of the pair of peddlers. The smile was complete on Jeff's face, and
laughter was in his heart. The horizon stretched limitlessly, with no
end or definition, and good fortune was a certainty. He couldn't be
other than happy.

"Where we going, Jeff?" Dan asked.

"I don't know. Let's follow our noses and go where they lead."

Jeff took the first mule and footpath that branched from the road, for
he was sure that most of the people he wanted to see would be back in.
Most hill people preferred plenty of room and they did not, as one
hillbilly had expressed it to Jeff, like to be "All cluttered up with
people. Skassly a week passes but what three, four go by."

Ranging ahead, Pal flushed a buck from its thicket, chased it a little
way, and let it go. He returned to Jeff and Dan, lingered to sniff at
some interesting rabbit tracks, and ran to catch up. There came a faint
smell of wood smoke.

Jeff sniffed eagerly, trying to determine the smoke's origin, and he
thought with some amusement that he was doing exactly as he had told Dan
they would do. In a very real sense he was following his nose, and when
he came to a less-traveled path that swung from the one they were
following, he took it.

Pal at his heels, Dan bringing up the rear, he walked fast. In three
minutes they came to a clearing. Apparently without plan, it had been
hacked out of the forest. It was irregularly-shaped, probably to follow
the easiest cutting, and a few large trees had been allowed to stand in
it. There were many stumps, a small garden, a mule that hung its head
over the topmost of two strands of rusting wire and looked cynical, and
four half-wild pigs that squealed and scuttled into the brush. The barn,
that had listed badly and seemed in immediate danger of falling, was
propped up with saplings. The house, made of hand-hewn timbers, was very
small and very old. Rains, snow, sun and wind had so beaten it that it
had achieved a unique color all its own and somehow it looked sad.

Jeff knocked confidently and waited. The door opened an inch, then
another inch, and in the gloomy interior Jeff saw, not too well, a
scowling face that was framed in a veritable haystack of black hair and
beard. But he saw very clearly the sinister snout of a rifle that was
aimed squarely at his middle and he heard very clearly a growled,

"Git goin' an' start now!"

"Right away," Jeff agreed.

He whirled and started back to the main path. Too over-awed to speak,
Dan trotted at his heels and he dared say nothing until they were once
more where they had started from. Then,

"Gee!" he breathed. "Weren't you scared?"

"No," Jeff answered wryly, "my heart always pounds."

"Do you think he didn't want us around?"

"I had a slight suspicion."

"What do we do now?"

"Find somebody else," Jeff said cheerfully. "It's part of peddling."

The day was too fine, and too sparkling, to be ruined by any surly
mountaineer. They walked on, feet winged and hearts gay. Jeff thought
whimsically that the money he made selling or trading was the very
smallest part of the reward he received. By far the major portion lay in
walks just like this, in the fact that he loved the work he was doing,
and in trying to anticipate what lay ahead. He always tried to build up
a mental picture of his next customer, always failed to do so, and
invariably had to discard his carefully-rehearsed approach to create a
new one on the spur of the moment. Much of the time he knew the sort of
house in which his next prospect would live, but nothing in his
experience had prepared him for the house they found not a mile from the
one they had left.

Rounding a bend, they saw a little hill. There was nothing majestic or
imposing about it, for it was a very small hill. But it was a very
beautiful one. It was as though the Creator of the mountains, after much
deliberation, had decided that the little hill would fit nowhere except
exactly where it was.

All the trees save one had been stripped from the side, Jeff and Dan
could see, and the grass growing there was so green and soft that it was
almost unreal. The one tree gave it just the right touch, so it was as
though this hill were something out of fairyland. A little herd of sheep
cropped the grass. Delighted, Jeff let his gaze stray upward.

"Gee but it's pretty!" Dan breathed.

"It is that," Jeff agreed. "Look at the house."

There were trees on the very top of the hill. Silhouetted against the
blue sky, they seemed to be outlined against a gentle sea. A log house
nestled in the grove. Something--at first Jeff thought it must be the
whitewash that outlined all the windows and then he knew it was not--set
the house apart. Like the hill, it was a fairyland house and Jeff knew
that they must visit there.

The hill rose in undulating waves, with no harsh angles or uncouth lines
to mar it. But it was not a park-like perfection. Some person, or
persons, must have expended enormous labor to make the hill look as it
did. But every line, every patch of grass, seemed to belong naturally
just where it was.

Jeff could decide only that this was a happy hill and that whoever lived
in the house was either the owner of a rare talent or blessed beyond
belief by the angels. Or perhaps some of both.

They came to the house and marveled. It was made of logs and chinked
with clay, but nothing haphazard had gone into its making. Even the
chinking was not just slapped on and troweled in, but flowed in graceful
lines as though it had always been part of the logs. As old as the cabin
they had left, the house had a sheen instead of a sad and aged
appearance. Whoever lived here must love it greatly.

"Howdy, boys."

The woman came around the house so silently and so unexpectedly that for
a moment Jeff was startled. The top of her head reached scarcely to his
shoulder. Her silver hair glowed like a halo, but there was something
which was far from angelic in the remarkable eyes that dominated her
unusual face. She wore a simple blue dress. Highlighted in silver, an
exquisitely-stitched blue-bird in flight adorned the front of it. Her
movements were quick and graceful. But there was no suggestion of
frailty, and the muzzle loading rifle that swung easily from her right
hand might have been a strong man's weapon.

Without any hesitation, Pal went forward to receive her caress. In a
sudden rush of feeling, Jeff forgot his amazement and felt entirely at
home. He knew all at once that everything and everybody was welcome on
this hill.

"And howdy to you, Granny!" he said graciously. "I'm--" Jeff thought of
introducing himself as Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd., but did not. "I'm Jeff
Tarrant and this is Dan Blazer."

Her head flitted like a bird's. "And I'm Granny Wilson."

"Wilson?" Jeff remembered. "I met an Ike Wilson in Cressman."

"Did you now? Ike's one of my boys. What was he doin'?"

"He was--" Jeff fumbled. "Darned if I haven't forgotten!"

Her laugh was like rippling water. "He was in jail for stealin'
chickens. You can say it, Jeff. It takes all kinds to make a family. My
Tommy's a doctor, my Joel's a lawyer, my Billy's a sailor--" She named
four more sons, all of whom were in some useful occupation, and
finished, "They all followed their natural bent and Ike just naturally
took to chicken stealin'." She turned to Dan. "You kin to Johnny
Blazer?"

Dan said bashfully, "He was my pop."

"Come in," she invited. "Come in and set down to gingerbread and milk. I
vow I've missed Johnny and I'm glad to have his kin! You come, too,
Jeff, and fetch your dog!"

Jeff looked at the rifle. "Have you been hunting?"

"Land no!" She laughed. "I was shootin' at Brant Severance!"

"You--!"

"Didn't hit him," she said. "Didn't aim to hit him. Just wanted to show
him he couldn't pester my sheep."

"But--isn't there--"

She anticipated and forestalled his question. "Nope, I'm all alone. My
boys, they want me to come with them. Land! I'd grow old and shrively in
a city! Two houses are one too many! Do come in."

Granny opened the door that was made of carefully-mortised,
hand-polished boards and adorned with an excellent wood carving that
depicted a running buck chased by wolves. Jeff and Dan breathed their
delight.

Except for the stove, the pots and pans that hung behind it, the lamps,
and a few other articles that would be very difficult to fashion with
hand tools, every bit of furniture had been made of whatever materials
were available. But whoever made it had not been contented with
something merely useful. Strict utility had received consideration, but
beauty was in vast abundance.

Jeff looked through a large window that faced the back and saw a neat
garden, a little grove of fruit trees, a fat mule, a brown cow, and a
cat sitting on a stone. It was exactly the big, fluffy, white cat that
should have belonged in such a place. Not until he took a second glance
did he realize that the cat was not alive at all, but woven into a
tapestry. He went nearer.

Stretched on a walnut frame, the tapestry was so exquisitely woven that
the cat's every hair not only showed but was in the right place. The cat
was about to lick a front paw, and even after he knew it was a tapestry,
so real was the illusion of life that Jeff extended a hand to see if the
cat might not be soft and warm. He turned to Granny.

"Who did this?"

She was all gentleness. "I did. That's my Kitty Cat, dead these four
months."

There was longing in her voice, and more than a hint of sadness, and
Jeff knew that the cat had meant a great deal to her. He understood.
Some people loved horses, some preferred dogs, and some set their
affections on cats. But for Granny it could not be just any cat.

Jeff asked, "Do you do much of this sort of thing?"

"Land, yes! A body ought to keep busy!"

Jeff said gently, "I think you've kept busy a long while around here."

"Sixty-four years the seventh of May," she said pertly. "Came as a
sixteen-year-old bride. Enos, God rest his soul, has been gone these
past three years. You two come on into the kitchen."

She led them into the kitchen, seated them, opened a trap door in the
floor, took cool milk from an earth-bound chamber, and lifted a tray of
gingerbread from a cabinet. Eighty years old, her movements were almost
as brisk and sure as a girl's. Jeff and Dan ate heartily; any food they
prepared for themselves could not possibly compare with this. Granny
seated herself companionably near.

"Ike say when he was gettin' out?" she asked.

"Well, no. He was there with Bucky--" Jeff snapped his fingers. "I
forgot his last name."

"Bucky Edwards," she furnished. "Land! He and Ike been stealin' chickens
for a span of time."

Jeff sensed something completely fine. She was old in years only. Until
the day she died her mind would be young and strong. Ike's escapades
probably did hurt her, but Ike was as much her son as the doctor, the
lawyer and the others who had decided in favor of respectable careers.
She would not deny him.

Jeff said, "Ike and Bucky didn't seem to have any definite plans."

"They have some," she assured him. "They'll come here, and when they do,
there'll be a heap of trouble--" She stopped suddenly, as though she had
said something unwise.

"When do you expect them?" Jeff asked.

"Don't rightly know. Maybe soon. Maybe not so soon."

For a moment Jeff was silent and Dan was still stuffing gingerbread into
his mouth. Granny had spoken of trouble when Ike came, but apparently it
was not trouble for herself, and if she wanted him to know more about it
she would have told him. He wished he could offer her help, but he had
an uncomfortable feeling that she knew how to help herself. He was
trying to think of a way to steer the conversation away from Ike when
Granny relieved him of the necessity for so doing.

"What you peddlin'?" she asked brightly.

Jeff fidgeted. The contents of his pack, for the most part, were
designed for those who had little. Jeff tried to please people who
yearned after a bit of gay ribbon, a new knife, anything they might need
or desire but could not get for themselves. But he couldn't imagine what
Granny lacked and countered her question with one of his own.

"Where do you get your thread and yarn?"

She looked surprised. "Spin it myself, to be sure. I have sheep. I grow
flax, too."

Jeff followed up because he was interested. "Do you also make your own
dyes?"

"Land, yes! 'Twould be a sin to let the yarbs go to waste when they grow
right at the door step!"

"Do you use anything besides herbs?"

"Bark, seeds, nut husks and shells, it's all here. Take a bit of this, a
bit of that, a bit of another thing, seethe it, and there's a dye."

"I know you do your own weaving."

"Land, yes!"

Jeff grinned ruefully. For the first time since its founding, Tarrant
Enterprises, Ltd., had reached a blind end. "Something for Everyone,"
was one of its numerous slogans. But he did not have anything for Granny
Wilson and he was honest about it.

"Granny, I don't believe I can offer you a thing."

"Oh, come now! You must have somethin'!"

"But I haven't."

"Now, Jeff, you jest open that pack and give me a look for myself."

"I'll do that much."

Jeff laid his pack on the table and opened every compartment. Granny
reached for a skein of gray yarn. She tested it with her fingers,
murmured, "Poorly, poorly," and handed it back. Granny ignored the
bright ribbons, had no time whatever for the knickknacks, lingered over
a packet of needles, and her eyes were accusing when she gave them back.

"Young man, you are a poor shakes of a peddler."

"I tried to tell you I hadn't anything you'd want."

"You should have somethin' to please a poor old woman."

"I know. If I had anything good enough for you--Oh, darn!"

A skein of yarn tumbled out of the pack and caught on a buckle. Jeff
reached through the slit for one of the many-bladed knives, opened the
scissors, and carefully snipped the tangled wool off. Granny clapped
joyful hands.

"I knew it! I knew it! Give me that."

Jeff handed her the knife. Granny's eyes shone.

"Just the thing!" she cried ecstatically. "Just what I need! My eyes
ain't what they used to be. I missed two shots at runnin' bucks last
fall and I'm forever mislayin' my necessaries. 'Twould be handy to have
so many in one piece. Cash or swap?"

Jeff said recklessly, "Let's call it a gift, Granny."

"But," she was honestly troubled, "you can't give me aught that cost you
dear."

"Yes I can."

"Not by my leave," she said firmly. "It's only right that a body gets
his worth."

"I'll swap even for a look at some of your other tapestries."

"My what?"

"Your cloth pictures, like the cat."

"Land! I'll get some."

She bounced from her chair, bustled into an adjoining room, and they
heard her open a trunk. A moment later she was back with two tapestries
under her arm. She spread one, a yard long by about twenty inches wide,
and Jeff gasped.

It was _The Last Supper_, but instead of following conventional
patterns, Granny had drawn inspiration from the life around her. Jesus
and His disciples were seated at a wooden table that was innocent of any
adornment or finery whatsoever, but the table was so finely done that a
sliver thrusting out from it seemed both real and symbolic. There was an
air of dignity that rose above mere human dignity, and the dyes had been
applied with a touch so delicate that holy light seemed to emanate from
the picture. Its message was one of hope. Judas was not to be abandoned.

"Do you like it?" Granny asked.

"It--" Jeff was at a loss for words. "It's wonderful!"

"Preacher Skiles thinks the Lord ain't right."

"Preacher Skiles assumes a great deal of responsibility."

She laughed. "'Twas not the way he meant it. He thinks Jesus should be
sittin' above the rest, with maybe angels flyin' at His shoulder."

"It's better this way."

"That's what I thought," Granny asserted. "The Lord, He wasn't above the
beggars, the sick and those who done wrong. Somehow I got to think of
Him as comin' down to all of us."

"I, too."

"This one," Granny spread the other tapestry, "I call _The Fall of
Satan_."

Jeff gasped again. The picture centered around the black silhouette of
Satan, with a background done in delicate shades of red. There was about
the figure utter misery, abandonment and despair. The gates of hell,
which he had not yet entered, were merely suggested. But they were
suggested so artistically that one sensed the seething fires, the
complete torment, that awaited.

Dan looked and shuddered. "Gee!"

Jeff breathed, "Why hasn't anyone else seen these, Granny?"

"Enos," she answered, "didn't hold with hangin' them on the walls and
I've tried to keep the house as Enos'd want it. But I knew Enos wouldn't
mind Kitty Cat. He--he's company."

"Somebody should see them."

"Pooh! Who'd bother with an old woman's foolishness?"

"I would."

"Then take them. Take them for the knife."

"I won't do it."

She seemed crestfallen. "I didn't think you would."

Jeff said seriously, "It isn't that. These are worth a great deal of
money."

"They are? How much?"

Jeff hazarded a guess, "Twenty-five dollars."

"Land!"

"Each," Jeff finished.

"My land!"

"Granny, do you trust me?"

"Pooh! I didn't raise eight of my own 'thout knowin' aught of boys."

"Are these dear to you?"

"I don't set much store by 'em. Enos never liked 'em."

"Let me take them into Ackerton," Jeff urged. "Let me see what I can do
with them there."

"Go ahead if you've a mind to. Land! Meal time and I haven't started a
thing for you boys to eat!"




8. ACKERTON


Jeff awakened an hour before sunrise. He raised himself on his bunk and
listened. Dan's regular breathing proved that he still slept, and Jeff
settled back beneath his warm blankets to do some thinking.

In some respects, the trading around Smithville had not gone as well as
he had hoped it would. The hill men had been eager for his knives of
many uses, his fishing tackle, his small tools, his nails and all the
bolts and screws he had. They had also taken all the novelties. But they
had spurned his inferior products because they could make better ones
themselves, and Jeff had been able to trade only one watch. Watches were
useless to those who guided themselves by the sun.

The women had been happy over the gay ribbons, the thread and yarn, the
pins and needles, and the bolt of gingham had gone in two days. It was
better and more colorful than anything Abel Tarkman stocked. But the
women had wanted only a small portion of his kitchenware and spices.
Jeff had traded all his cinnamon, pepper, tea and the few other things
that could not be found locally. But no hill woman would think of
offering anything at all for what she could find growing within easy
reach of her doorstep or was able to produce in her garden.

The candy had been exhausted by the third day, and Jeff grinned at the
way it had gone. He had conceived what he thought was the clever idea of
bribing the children with it, and he had discovered that the older folks
had a sweet tooth, too. Never to be forgotten was Grandpa Severance,
sucking a striped peppermint stick with toothless jaws.

However, in other respects, trading had far exceeded Jeff's fondest
hopes.

Though the hill people had rejected some of his wares, they had been
willing to pay well for what they did want. Jeff and Dan had visited
their cabins or met them on the trails, for news that a peddler who'd
rather trade than sell was abroad had penetrated into the remotest
valleys. Jeff had a dozen hunting knives whose quality ranged from fair
to superb. There were three exquisitely balanced hand-made hatchets, a
wonderfully polished hunting horn, a set of fine miniatures made of deer
antler, a fringed buckskin shirt, four pairs of superior moccasins and
other articles, including an ancient matchlock pistol still in working
order. Granny Wilson's tapestries remained his biggest prize.

Jeff knew that, beyond any doubt, his week's work had paid him more than
any previous month's. But he knew also that he would have to get trade
goods that conformed to the hill people's idea of what they wanted.
Therefore, in order to get new stock and dispose of the wares he had, a
trip to Ackerton was necessary. That presented a problem.

Dan had traveled with him all week. Far from lagging, his interest in
trading had heightened. So far Dan had kept his promise and had done as
Jeff said. But by the fastest route it would take a full day to go to
Ackerton, a full day to return, and Jeff thought that he would need at
least four or five days in the city. What would Dan do if Jeff were not
there to restrain him? The boy had never forgotten that a blood feud had
brought him back to Smithville.

Dan's bunk rustled and he whispered, "Jeff."

"I'm here."

"Just wanted to see if you're awake."

As it usually did when he needed it most, happy inspiration came to
Jeff.

"I'm awake all right and I want you to do something for me."

"Sure, Jeff."

"I'm going to Ackerton today and I may be gone a week or more. I want
you to take Pal and go up to watch over Granny Wilson."

"But--"

"She needs somebody," Jeff urged. "You and I have stopped in there
almost every day and kept an eye on her. We can't just leave her alone."

Dan said reluctantly, "All right, Jeff. Can I take the shotgun?"

"You'd just better."

His problem neatly solved, Jeff relaxed. When Dan announced that he had
been assigned as her protector, Granny, in her wisdom, would accept him
as such. If he should get out of hand, the shotgun shells were loaded
with nothing but paper. They'd make a satisfactory noise but wouldn't
hurt anybody.

Jeff prepared their breakfasts, they cleaned the cabin, and with the
shotgun over one shoulder, half-pulling the unwilling Pal with his free
hand, Dan started for Granny Wilson's. Pack on his shoulder, Jeff strode
into Smithville.

There were two routes to Ackerton. The hard one was over the mountains.
The easy one was eighteen miles down the logger's road to Delview, where
a train could be boarded, and Jeff chose that way. He walked swiftly,
anxious to make time, but even as he walked he filed in his mind the
locations of the cabins he either passed or saw evidence of. There were
vast possibilities for trade around Smithville. So far he and Dan had
explored only a small part of it.

Half past twelve brought him to Delview, and Jeff walked openly down the
street. Larger than Cressman, Delview was busier, and Jeff's peddling
instincts cried for expression. He submerged them; a city was the only
place to offer the wares he carried now. Jeff stopped when a policeman
tapped his shoulder.

"Are you peddling?"

"No," Jeff answered blandly, "just passing through."

"You come from Cressman?"

"Cressman? I came from Smithville."

"Just thought I'd ask. Been fishing?"

"Hunting," Jeff said gravely.

He grinned to himself and walked on. Obviously, Pop and Joe Parker had
sent word to Delview, but just as obviously they'd told the police there
to be alert for a red-headed peddler accompanied by a huge dog. On
impulse, Jeff stopped at a drugstore, bought a postcard, addressed it to
Joe Parker, and wrote, "Thanks for sending me to Delview. Regards to
Pop. Happy days."

He signed it J. Seymour Tarrant, Esq., dropped it into a mail box, made
his way to the station and bought a ticket to Ackerton.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaving Delview at half past three, and stopping several times en route,
the train did not reach Ackerton until a quarter to eight. Jeff bore the
slow ride serenely, for only the unwise thought that they must forever
hurry. Besides, time could always be used to good advantage and the slow
train was a heaven-sent opportunity to work out a plan. Arriving in
Ackerton, Jeff had a clear idea of just what he wanted to do there.

He left the train and made a confident way through the huge station. He
had the pack on his back because that was the easiest way to carry it,
and he met the curious stares directed at him with a good-natured grin.
He was as out of place here as a well-dressed Ackertonite would have
been in Smithville, and he elicited the same curiosity. But he did not
mind because he had been in cities before and he would be forgotten as
soon as he was out of sight. Jeff's questing eyes found a paper banner
displayed above one of the station's newsstands:

     HOTEL KENNARD, ACKERTON'S BEST

He glanced at the banner and followed a pointing arrow with TAXI
stenciled on it. Imperiously he beckoned the lead cab and directed, "The
Hotel Kennard."

The cabbie looked questioningly at him. "The Kennard?"

"The Kennard," Jeff repeated, "and since I know the shortest way, you
might as well follow it."

The cabbie shrugged; if this ill-dressed traveler wanted to go to the
Kennard, and was able to pay for the trip, that was his affair. Jeff
relaxed in the back seat and gave himself over to enjoying a city's
sights, sounds, and bustle. Maybe, if he were a very wealthy merchant,
instead of a peddler, he would enjoy such a place himself. A moment
later he decided that he wouldn't. Half his fun lay in personal contact
with customers, and there was little that was personal about city
business. The cab halted at the curb and the driver opened the door.

"Just a second," Jeff directed.

He glanced swiftly at the Kennard and was satisfied. It was in one of
the better sections, and the well-dressed men and women going in and out
were proof enough that it was, if not the best, at least one of the best
hotels. Thus Jeff had the base of operations that he wanted. He paid the
cabbie and entered the hotel.

The lobby was plush, with thick carpeting, marble pillars, and the usual
quota of those who were waiting or simply loafing in upholstered chairs.
Heads rose, and Jeff winked slyly at an obviously affluent man who
peered at him over the top of a paper. Embarrassed, the man ducked back
beneath his paper. Jeff made his way to the desk.

"First floor room with bath," he directed loftily. "I wish to be away
from street noises and," he looked critically around the lobby, "I
prefer the better furnishings."

The blasÃ© clerk, who had registered all sorts of guests but few like
this, took Jeff's measure with his eye.

"Those rooms are five dollars a day."

"My good man! I asked for a room, not advice!"

"Ye--" the clerk was still suspicious but he was also there to rent
rooms. "Yes, sir. Overnight only?"

"My stay is indefinite."

Jeff signed the register with a flourishing "Jeffrey S. Tarrant,"
accepted the key and gave his pack over to a solemn-faced bellboy who
led him down a corridor. He examined the room as he entered, displayed a
dollar bill, flipped a quarter and said to the bellboy,

"Bring me a city directory, will you?"

"Yes, sir."

The bellboy left, knocked discreetly a few minutes later, handed Jeff a
bulky directory, and Jeff tipped him a dollar. He washed and, careless
of the glances he attracted, enjoyed a good dinner in the Kennard's
dining room. Then he returned to his room, belly-flopped on the bed,
opened the directory, laid a pencil and sheet of paper on it and began
to run his finger down the columns. He came to "Barnerson, Joseph D.,
dlr. antqes. 413 Grand Ave.," and wrote the information on his sheet of
paper. Jeff noted five more dealers in antiques, six sporting goods
stores and six shops chosen at random which, from their listings, seemed
to cater to exclusive trade. That done, he referred to a city map in the
same book and drew a line through whatever did not seem to be in one of
Ackerton's better districts.

The first phase of his campaign was outlined. Jeff rang for the evening
papers and read until he was too sleepy to read any more.

From force of habit he awoke at dawn, but turned over and went back to
sleep. The hill people began their day with the first light, but he was
in a city now. Jeff awoke again at eight o'clock, breakfasted and made
his way to the street. He wandered down it and entered the first
clothing store he found.

"I want a business suit," he told the clerk who accosted him.

"This way, sir."

The clerk tried to read Jeff, thought he'd succeeded, and brought out a
suit that had been in style fifteen years ago and probably in storage
since.

Jeff rose with a curt, "Don't you have any new suits?"

"Oh! Sorry, sir. My error."

He fitted Jeff with a neat blue serge suit, a white shirt, a modest but
smart tie, a pair of socks, and new shoes. Jeff took his old clothes
back to the Kennard, wrapped one of Barr Whitney's knives, thrust it
into his inside coat pocket and went out. His trap was set and scented.
Now he had to see if he would catch anything.

There were four sporting goods stores still on his list, but Jeff passed
the first because its windows were dirty and the second because it
advertised a bargain sale. But the third seemed to offer what he wanted.
He asked the friendly clerk who came forward, "Is Mr. Ryerson in?"

"No, he isn't. But Mr. Calworth is."

"May I see him?"

"This way."

Jeff followed the clerk down the aisle and examined the store closely as
he did so. The fire arms, fishing tackle and other sporting equipment
displayed on the counters was all of quality make and he hadn't been
asked for an appointment, so evidently this store catered to sportsmen
able to afford the best and at the same time it was not overly formal.
The clerk ushered him into an office and Jeff's hopes rose.

"Mr. Calworth," the clerk said, "this gentleman wants to see you."

"My name's Tarrant," Jeff shook Mr. Calworth's extended hand, "Jeff
Tarrant, and I'd hoped you'd be kind enough to furnish me with some
information."

"Sit down, Mr. Tarrant."

Mr. Calworth was middle-aged, and a sprinkling of gray showed in his
black hair. But there was a sparkle in his eyes, an ease of movement and
callouses on his hands. Obviously he did something besides sit at a
desk, and Jeff guessed shrewdly that he was an outdoor enthusiast
himself. Jeff took the proffered chair and draped himself carelessly,
but not too carelessly, upon it.

"I represent Tarrant Enterprises," Jeff almost added the Ltd., but
caught himself in time. "We may wish to expand."

"Are you in sporting goods?"

"Partly."

"And you're considering Ackerton?"

"Yes and no. That's what I hope to decide."

"There's plenty of room, Mr. Tarrant."

"But how much _good_ room?"

Mr. Calworth laughed. "I'll tell you frankly. There are a variety of
sporting goods stores, but Ryerson and Hapley split forty-five per cent
of the trade and ninety per cent of the most desirable trade. However,
there is no reason why an aggressive newcomer should not do very well."

Jeff bent forward. "Is there a survey--Oh!" Purposely arranged to do so,
the knife in his pocket had slipped and thrust the front of his new coat
outward. Grinning his embarrassment, Jeff took the knife from his pocket
and balanced it on his knee.

Mr. Calworth's eyes followed his movements. "What do you have there?"

"One of our specialties." Jeff gave him the knife. "A rather exceptional
piece."

Mr. Calworth slipped the knife from its sheath, and his eyes warmed as
he examined it. He tested the blade with his thumb and shaved a couple
of hairs from the back of his hand. When he turned to Jeff, he was
interested.

"You specialize in this sort of thing?"

"We specialize in quality," Jeff said casually. "When we sell, we like
to believe that the customer receives full value."

"Do you get many articles as good?"

Jeff shrugged. "Look at it. Can that be mass-produced?"

"No," Mr. Calworth admitted. "What is your retail price on this knife?"

"Twenty dollars," Jeff said firmly.

"When do you intend to open your branch, Mr. Tarrant?"

"I'm not sure we will open it. At least, we won't until after much more
extensive research."

"Would you care to make Ryerson your agent until you decide definitely?"

Jeff deliberated. Then, "I hadn't thought of an agency."

"It can't hurt you and it might make you some money. I'll continue to be
frank. This is not something to offer an average customer because he
simply cannot afford it. But there are sportsmen who can, and they come
to Ryerson's. We'll take this, and any other quality merchandise you
have, at a thirty per cent discount."

Jeff thought of Barr's other knife, a few of the rest, the hatchets, the
bridle reins, and made a swift calculation. Not all were equally
valuable, but all were quality. If Ryerson paid him cash, he would more
than make up for everything he had dispensed from his pack, his train
fare, his expenses in Ackerton, and he would still have valuable goods.
He said finally, "It should work to our mutual benefit."

"May we expect some more soon?" Mr. Calworth asked.

"I have a few in my sample case at the Kennard. You may have those as
soon as I've time to deliver them and more in--shall we say three
weeks?"

"I'll send a clerk for what you have," Mr. Calworth promised, "and leave
your check at the Kennard desk. Or would you prefer payment to your
business headquarters?"

Jeff held his breath inwardly, but answered quite casually, "It doesn't
matter."

"We'll leave it at the Kennard," Mr. Calworth decided. "What should the
total be?"

Jeff made a swift mental calculation. Barr Whitney's two knives for
twenty dollars each, one almost as good for fifteen, two for ten and
three for five dollars each. Pete's horsehide thong for four dollars and
the three hatchets at five dollars each. That less thirty per cent. Jeff
gave the total, "Seventy-six dollars and thirty cents."

"Good!" Jeff knew that this keen man would examine each article and see
if the price was suitable. "Are you going back to the Kennard?"

"I must stop in for a few minutes."

"May I send someone along to pick up the rest of the things?"

"Certainly."

"Fine! Don't forget us, Mr. Tarrant."

Jeff walked back to the Kennard with one of Ryerson's clerks, gave him
the merchandise intended for him in the lobby and got a receipt. Then he
returned to his room, looked over the motley collection of knives that
remained, and decided that he could sell or trade them to his advantage.
But he wanted to take care of some of the other articles first and then
give special attention to Granny's tapestries. He examined the pistol
and the set of miniatures. Both were unknown quantities.

About a foot long, the pistol had a metal barrel and ivory handles that
had faded to a soft yellow. On each handle was an elaborate boar's head.
Nat Stancer, who had traded Jeff the pistol for two screwdrivers, had
kept it in good working order. Jeff did not know how much it was worth,
but certainly it would be of use only to a hill man or to someone
interested in antiques.

The miniatures were small but well carved and proportioned, and all of
them consisted of deer in various stages and poses. There were a doe and
fawn, a running buck, a lone fawn, three grazing does, a resting buck
and a doe rearing. They had cost Jeff a yard each of red, blue and
yellow ribbon, but the woman who had traded them had not done the
carving. The miniatures were also old and Jeff thought they had probably
been fashioned by some invalid with nothing else to do.

The pistol in one side pocket and the miniatures in another, Jeff set
out to visit the antique dealers whose names and addresses he had
listed. With no experience in antiques, he had only a vague idea as to
how to go about selling his, so he took the dealers in alphabetical
order and the first name on his list was Joseph Barnerson.

He entered the store, a narrow building sandwiched between two larger
ones, and looked curiously at the objects surrounding him. Jeff
recognized few and wanted none, but looking at them strengthened his own
conviction that, no matter what the article might be, it was desirable
to somebody. Jeff turned toward the man who came to meet him. He had
half expected somebody old and creaking, but this man was only about
thirty and far from decrepit.

"What may I do for you?"

"I have an old pistol," Jeff said, "and maybe I'd sell it if I got the
right price."

The man smiled. "Mister, I sell antiques. I do not buy them."

"You don't? Where do you get your stock then?"

The smile became a grin. "I get my merchandise in my own way. Let me see
your pistol."

Jeff handed it over. The man examined it closely and finally said,
"They're a drug on the market. I'll give you fifty cents."

"In that case, wrap up six for me. I'll give you three dollars for 'em."

"Where would I get six?"

"You said they're a drug on the market."

"So," the man admitted, "are most other antiques. Their value depends on
how badly somebody wants them. Find somebody who wants the pistol and
you'll get a fair price. To somebody who doesn't want it, it isn't worth
a penny."

"That makes sense."

"What are you going to do now?"

"Find somebody who wants it."

But, though Jeff visited other dealers in antiques, none offered him
more than a dollar for the pistol and nobody offered anything for the
miniatures. It was very late when he returned to the Kennard.




9. MIGHTY MISSION


In his room at the Kennard, Jeff slept late. The past four days had been
busy ones, and more than a little hectic, and he was tired.

Mr. Calworth himself had brought back three of the cheapest knives.
Admittedly they were worth five dollars each, but they were not
merchandise that Ryerson could sell to its more exacting customers. If
they were to pay premium prices, they demanded premium quality and
Ryerson had better knives in stock that they sold for four dollars and a
half. However, Mr. Calworth had softened their return by taking the
fringed hunting shirt, the four pairs of moccasins and the polished
hunting horn, and privately Jeff kicked himself for failing to offer
them in the first place. They had brought thirty-eight dollars and
Ryerson's would take all Jeff could supply if the quality remained as
good.

The pistol was also gone. Failing to sell it to anyone at the price he
wanted to get, Jeff had carelessly left it on his dresser. The maid who
tidied up the room had found it, decided that only a desperate outlaw
would use such a thing and taken to it the clerk. Unable to resolve a
situation so grave, and unwilling to take the responsibility, the clerk
had consulted the manager and the manager had come to see Jeff.

He apologized for his employees but thought that they had been well
intentioned. He also recognized the pistol and it just so happened that
his hobby was collecting antique fire arms. If Jeff cared to sell the
pistol--Jeff did, for fifteen dollars.

Jeff had tramped the streets, going from store to store and bartering.
It had taken time. But bit by bit he had rid himself of almost
everything he had brought to Ackerton and stocked his pack with items
the hill people favored. None of it had cost Jeff any money and, in
addition to all expenses, he had a clear profit of almost a hundred
dollars. Under ordinary circumstances that would have been excellent.
But these circumstances were not ordinary.

He had been unable to find a buyer for either the miniatures or Granny
Wilson's tapestries.

Though it revolted his peddler's instincts to do so, he was willing to
keep the miniatures if it took too much time to sell them. Not only did
he refuse to do so with Granny's tapestries, but he was determined to
settle for nothing less than the price he had assured Granny he could
get. However, at least for the moment, he had reached a stalemate.

Jeff had visited every store that seemed to have a wealthy trade. But
the most expensive tapestry he had been shown cost twelve dollars and
fifty cents and he hadn't even bothered to show Granny's.

Jeff turned over, opened his eyes, sat up, yawned and occupied his mind
with the problems of the day. The smile remained on his lips and his
eyes retained their sparkle. The fact that he had had no success with
the tapestries proved only that he had not yet offered them to the
right person. They were a challenge, and it was a challenge to which he
could rise. If he had permitted himself to be discouraged by every small
setback, he would have stopped peddling long ago.

He dressed, breakfasted and lingered over his plate to ponder the
problem of the tapestries. Naturally one did not walk up to any
stranger, ask him if he needed an expensive tapestry and proceed to sell
him one. But there had to be a way because there was always a way. What
way? Jeff tried his best to come up with an answer and couldn't do it.
He still had no intention of leaving Ackerton until the tapestries were
sold.

Jeff fell back on the idea that first things must be first and he still
had more to do in Ackerton. Maybe something would occur to him while he
was doing it.

He went to his room, referred to the directory, found the Jackson School
for Boys, noted its address on a slip of paper and tucked one of
Granny's tapestries, _The Last Supper_, under his arm before he left the
hotel. Far from doing so only once, Opportunity was always knocking, and
Jeff thought that many people missed her visit only because they were
unprepared when she was all but hammering the door from its hinges.

Jeff took a taxi across town. There were trolleys, but he hadn't
acquainted himself with their schedules and, besides, taxis were faster.
Now that time was a factor--he wanted to finish his business and return
to Smithville--he could not afford to loiter. Jeff looked interestedly
at the section of the city they were entering.

Downtown Ackerton was crowded, with land so precious that there was no
room for any space at all between buildings. Even the more modest
residential areas had houses close together and a bit of yard in front
and back. This must be where the wealthy element lived. The houses were
large and set back from the streets. By Ackerton standards, the lawns
were very spacious, though all of them together wouldn't have offered a
hill dweller as much room as he needed. They came to an area where there
were no residences at all but only a few business places, and Jeff had a
fleeting glimpse of one that interested him. The display windows were
clear, but drapes hung behind them and Jeff thought he saw a tapestry
displayed. He memorized the name; the Murchison Galleries.

The cabbie turned aside into a paved drive and halted his taxi beside a
large building that had a distinct air of gentility. The taxi stopped
and Jeff looked puzzled.

"I wanted the Jackson School."

"This is it."

Jeff paid the driver, got out and looked around. Obviously a converted
mansion, the Jackson School had none of the aloofness of the mansions
they had passed. Surrounded by green lawns and flower gardens, there was
the same strong sense of being welcome that was so evident on Granny
Wilson's hill. Jeff whistled. Johnny Blazer, who had lived in a cabin
behind Smithville, hadn't stinted himself when he chose a school for his
son. Jeff knew a little misgiving. It was his intention to see Dan back
here when the school term opened. But could he afford it?

"Might as well find out," he murmured to himself.

Inside the main entrance, a pleasant girl looked up from a desk upon
which was a typewriter, an inkwell with a tray of pens and a few papers.
She smiled at Jeff.

"Yes?"

"I'd like to see--" Jeff tried and could not think of the titles given
officials in private schools for boys. He grinned. "I'd like to discuss
a youngster who probably would be in the sixth grade."

"Is he a student here?"

"Yes."

"I'll call Mr. Nelson. Will you be seated, please?"

She talked into a speaking tube. Jeff seated himself on a comfortable
divan, and as soon as he saw him, he approved of the man who came in.
About fifty years old, he was short and inclined to stoutness. He wore a
gray suit that fitted well and had been chosen with care. His face was
flushed and his hair iron-gray. But the blue eyes that set his face off
were gentle, understanding and wise. Jeff rose to meet him.

"Mr. Nelson?"

"Yes sir." His voice was soft and pleasant.

"My name's Jeff Tarrant," Jeff introduced himself. "I've come to talk to
you about Dan Blazer."

Alert interest flooded the headmaster's face. "Oh, yes. Do you know
where he is?"

"Yes. Let me tell you."

Mr. Nelson listened attentively while Jeff spoke of finding Dan in
Johnny Blazer's cabin. Jeff told of Dan's fierce anger, and his
unshakable determination to seek out whoever had killed his father and
extract full vengeance. He spoke of his own part in it and of the
paper-loaded shotgun shells. Jeff did not try to conceal the fact that
he was a peddler, nor did he hide Dan's interest in peddling. He told of
his own hopes to find Johnny's murderer, let the law take its course,
and of the effect he thought that would have on Dan.

For a moment after he finished, Mr. Nelson did not speak. Then he asked,
"Where is the boy now?"

"I left him in very good hands. He will lack for nothing."

Mr. Nelson looked troubled. "What do you intend to do with him, Mr.
Tarrant?"

"If I can afford it, I want to bring him back here when the fall term
opens."

Mr. Nelson smiled gently. "Mr. Tarrant, when you looked up the Jackson
School for Boys, I'm sure you saw nothing about our being restricted to
wealthy boys only. We do have students, and I'll admit that they are of
exceptional ability, who pay whatever their parents or guardians can
afford."

"Where does Dan rate in that category?"

"Very highly. Very highly I assure you. An outstanding youngster, but
your revelations were not a complete surprise."

"You expected him to run away?"

"I took him to his father's funeral," Mr. Nelson said softly. "He said
little, but I knew what he was thinking. After he ran away, I wrote to
the authorities in Smithville, but I've had no reply."

"That's my fault," Jeff admitted. "I told them that Dan was under my
care and that I'd contact you personally."

"You did? By any chance did you have ideas about looking us over?"

"I had that idea. And I had no intention of letting him come back if you
did not measure up."

"Oh! We do meet your standards?"

Jeff smiled. "You're good enough."

"You might have brought Dan with you."

"I might also have put him in a cage," Jeff said wryly. "And if I kept
him there for one, three, or ten years, he'd get out some time. When he
did, he'd still go back and hunt whoever shot his father."

"How old are you, Mr. Tarrant?"

"Going on nineteen."

"Would it be impertinent to ask your background?"

Jeff said quietly, "I lived in an orphanage until I was a little past
fourteen. Then I ran away and worked at various jobs. Since quitting the
last one, I've been a peddler."

"I see. And what do you hope to gain by sending this youngster back to
us?"

Jeff still spoke quietly. "Sleep, easy sleep at night because I did not
leave him alone when he had no one else to whom he could turn."

"What does Dan think about it?"

"I haven't told him," Jeff grinned, "but I have a pact with him. Dan has
agreed to do anything I say."

"Why?"

"He likes peddling, and he has an idea that he's going to throw in with
me. I told him he couldn't unless he minded me."

"What are your plans for the future?"

"I haven't decided," Jeff said seriously. "But I like Smithville, and if
things continue to get as well as they've started out, in the next three
or four years I'll be able to build up a good business right in
Smithville."

"I see. Do you have any ideas about Dan's 'throwing in' with you?"

"Yes I do," Jeff confessed. "I like him and I'd like to have him;
Tarrant and Blazer would be a mighty good team. But first he must have
an education."

"Why?"

"So he'll know what I have never learned. I read as much as I can, but
that's not as good as solid groundwork in school."

"If you pay for his education, would you insist on his later services?"

"No, he can choose his own way."

"You're willing to be responsible for him on such a basis?"

"Yes, sir. Wh--what is your tuition fee?"

"Mr. Blazer paid--" Mr. Nelson named half the sum Jeff had expected.
"What do you wish to have me do?"

"I want only your written confirmation that Dan is in my care."

"May I also say that you are to return him to us by September
fourteenth?"

"Certainly."

"All right. Miss Jackson, may I borrow your desk?"

The confirming letter in an inside pocket, Jeff strode happily out of
the school. It had all been much simpler than he had thought possible,
but Mr. Nelson was an understanding person. Jeff knew that he himself
had undergone one of the most severe examinations of his life--and had
passed it. Relieved about Dan, he could now give his whole attention to
the business at hand.

It was a long way to the Kennard, but Jeff did not want to hail or phone
for a taxi as yet because the neighborhood, and the stores he had seen,
interested him. He walked back the way he had come, saw the stores
ahead, and halted in front of the Murchison Galleries.

He wanted to assure himself that he had seen what he thought he had
seen, and it was there. In the window, somehow accentuated by the very
simplicity of its surroundings, was a tapestry that depicted a bowl of
crocuses in bloom. Though he did not know a great deal about tapestries,
Jeff realized that this was a very fine one. But mentally he compared it
to Granny's, and decided that hers was better. Jeff entered the
galleries.

Though only fair-sized, the arrangement of the interior loaned an
illusion of spaciousness and its air was one of quiet refinement. There
were paintings on the walls and others on easels, and without examining
them too closely, Jeff knew that the way they were placed added much to
their effectiveness. He turned to meet the man coming toward him and was
greeted with a pleasant, "Good morning."

He said it as though he were welcoming a guest into his house, and Jeff
responded in kind. "Good morning. I think you may save my life!"

"Indeed?" The man arched his brows. "You hardly seem on the verge of
expiring."

"I really am, though. You do know something about tapestries?"

"A bit." The man smiled indulgently. "What do you wish?"

Jeff unrolled Granny's _The Last Supper_ and held it up for inspection.
"I _must_ find the exact duplicate of this."

"May I see it?"

The man took the tapestry, felt its texture, turned it over and examined
it at arm's length. His eyes hardened ever so slightly. Lowering the
tapestry, he wrinkled his brow in thought.

"Perhaps we may help you, Mr.--"

"Tarrant," Jeff supplied. "Jeffrey Tarrant."

"I'm Raold Murchison. You wish us to find a duplicate of this?"

"If you can," Jeff wanted twenty-five dollars but decided he might as
well try for more. "It's worth a hundred dollars."

"How soon must you have it, Mr. Tarrant?"

"Tomorrow noon's the deadline," Jeff said ruefully. "Just think! I've
been in Ackerton almost a week before I found you."

"Where are you staying?"

"The Kennard. Room sixteen."

"May we retain this until tomorrow at noon?"

"Of course, naturally you will--"

"Naturally. I would not ask you to leave it without a receipt. Will you
be at the Kennard at noon?"

"I'll make it a point to be there."

"I shall phone you then, Mr. Tarrant, and advise you concerning our
success or failure."

He gave Jeff a receipt and noted his name and room number. Jeff left the
galleries, knowing that he had taken a gamble. But who hoped to win had
to take chances. With nothing else to do, he gave the rest of the day
and most of the next morning to wandering about Ackerton. He returned to
his room at twenty to twelve, and exactly twenty minutes later his phone
rang.

"Mr. Tarrant," it was the desk clerk, "there's a Mr. Murchison here to
see you."

"Send him in."

Jeff opened the door for Raold Murchison, and no matter where he stood,
he would still be master of the Murchison Galleries.

"I came in person, Mr. Tarrant, because that seemed best."

"Indeed?"

"Yes, we succeeded in locating the exact duplicate of your tapestry."

Jeff gave thanks for his ability to wear a poker face when such was in
order. If the Murchison Galleries had located the twin of Granny's _The
Last Supper_, Granny had made it. And Raold Murchison wouldn't even know
how to talk to her.

Murchison smiled tentatively. "In the process of finding the duplicate,
we also found a customer who is enamoured of the pair."

"Those things happen."

"I assume that you have a customer who will pay you at least two hundred
dollars?"

Jeff made no comment. It was Murchison's privilege to assume anything he
wished. The art dealer continued, "I am prepared to offer you a hundred
and twenty-five dollars for yours."

Jeff's heart leaped but his face revealed nothing. Obviously, somewhere
among his wealthy neighbors, Raold Murchison, just as Jeff had hoped,
had known the exact person who would appreciate such a tapestry.
Naturally, he would sell it for more than the price offered Jeff, but he
was entitled to a profit, too. Hiding his elation, Jeff frowned.

"It isn't the price I thought I'd get."

"But you cannot sell yours without a duplicate?"

Jeff looked away without answering. Murchison waited expectantly.
Finally Jeff looked back. "Well, all right," he agreed.

"How about taking another tapestry?" Jeff asked.

"Oh, you have another?"

Jeff showed him _The Fall of Satan_. Raold Murchison examined it and
turned to Jeff.

"A fair enough piece and I'll speculate. Shall we say fifty dollars?"

"Let's say seventy-five?"

"I'm taking a chance but--Will you accept my personal check?"

"Certainly."

Raold Murchison wrote a check and waved it in the air until it dried.
"If you should be in Ackerton again, Mr. Tarrant, the Murchison
Galleries are ever ready to be of service."

He left and Jeff leaped high to click his heels in the air. He had hoped
to get fifty dollars for both tapestries. He had two hundred and a
strong hint that more tapestries would be welcome. He fairly danced down
to the desk.

"When is the next train for Delview?" he asked.

The clerk consulted a time table. "Five-three."

"Thanks."

Jeff ran out on the street and hailed a taxi.

"The nearest place where I can buy a kitten," he directed, "and stay
with me. I want you all afternoon."

"Sure, Bub."

Half past four, and five pet shops later, Jeff found what he wanted. Of
three white Angora kittens in the window, one was almost the twin of
Granny's departed pet. It watched Jeff shyly, and arched its back
against his hand. Then it promptly proceeded to bite his finger. Plainly
it was a kitten with character.

"I want it!" Jeff told the astonished proprietor. "Put it in a cage or
something because it's going on the train!"

Lifted into a second-hand bird cage, the kitten spat its indignation and
fell to swiping at shadows with a silky paw. Jeff laid five dollars, the
requested price, on the counter and thrust his hand into the pocket
where the miniatures lay.

"Present for you," he said, scattering them across the counter. He
rushed to the cab. "Hotel Kennard and don't spare the gasoline. I have
to be at the station by five-two!"

He made it with a whole minute to spare.




10. BOMBSHELL


Dan Blazer, going up the trail toward Granny Wilson's with the shotgun
in one hand and Pal's leash in the other, was a little angry and more
than a little resentful. Though Jeff had said that Dan was going to take
care of Granny, the boy had convinced himself that he was actually to be
taken care of. He resented it because he and Jeff had a pact--Dan had
promised to do anything Jeff said--but Jeff seemed to have forgotten. If
he wanted to stay at Granny's, he had only to say so and nothing else
was necessary. Dan turned to pull the balky Pal along.

"Come on!" he ordered. "Come on, Pal! Jeff's going to Ackerton and he
doesn't want either you or me with him!"

Pal, who had wanted to go with Jeff but who was beginning to get the
idea that he was not supposed to, stopped straining back on the leash.
He was not wholly abandoned, as he had been when Johnny went away, and
that was a comfort.

Dan brightened a little. Jeff had not only let him have the shotgun and
the six shells but had insisted that he take them. The very fact that
Jeff had trusted him with both made him feel more like a man and less
like a little boy. He gripped the shotgun tightly. Some day he would
look down the rib that separated its two barrels and see the man who
had shot his father. Dan's eyes flashed, then softened. That day must
not be now; he had promised Jeff that he wouldn't shoot anybody and Jeff
was very smart. Dan skipped along.

Save for the one dark cloud, the future glowed with bright promise. Jeff
had promised to make a peddler of him and that would be the ideal life.
Dan thought of it during his waking moments and dreamed of it in his
sleep. All he had to do in order to make his dreams come true was obey
Jeff, and that was a small price to pay for the reward it offered. Jeff
was all-wise, all-good, all-powerful, and maybe he _had_ really sent Dan
to take care of Granny.

When Granny's green hill came in sight, Dan's spirits were almost
completely lifted. The fact that he wished so desperately to take a
man's part helped convince him that he was taking one, and he forgot his
resentment to greet Granny with a smile.

"Good morning, Granny."

"Dan! My land! Where's Jeff?"

"Gone to Ackerton and he'll be gone for some time. He--" Dan hesitated.
"He sent me and Pal up to look after you while he's away."

Granny reacted precisely as Jeff had thought she would. "Now that was a
kindly thought! I really miss a man around the house. Come in and let me
set you a dish of cookies."

Granny's wholehearted acceptance of himself and his mission removed most
of the lingering suspicion Dan retained that Granny was really supposed
to take care of him. He swelled with newfound importance and felt a
profound gratitude toward Jeff for sending him on a man's job. The
cookies Granny set before him were tangible proof that taking care of
her would not be without its rewards. With the appetite of a dragon and
the digestion of a goat, and despite his substantial breakfast, Dan
finished all the cookies and wished there were more. But it would hardly
be polite to ask.

"I can stay until Jeff gets back, Granny," he said. "You won't have to
worry while I'm here."

"I won't," she asserted. "I just won't fret even one particle. It's such
a comfort to have you. What's Jeff doing in Ackerton?"

"Trading. We've been working pretty hard and now he has to trade
everything we got." Dan thought wistfully of Jeff, who in the boy's mind
was nine feet tall and possessed all the capacities of a wizard. "He'll
do all right, too. Those city people, they're not near as smart as
Jeff."

"They couldn't be," Granny agreed solemnly. "That Jeff, he's man all
through."

"We're partners," Dan said. "Partners in everything. Any of those
Whitneys been bothering you, Granny?"

"Not of late." Granny looked a bit puzzled. "Why do you ask about the
Whitneys?"

"Because," Dan said fiercely, "one of them shot my pop and soon's Jeff
and me find out which one, we're going to shoot him!"

"My land! How you talk!"

Dan felt suddenly that he was a little boy again, and justly censured by
an adult for lack of wisdom. He all but blushed. "We're not going to do
it right away."

"That's nice," Granny said.

"Now I have to take care of you. What needs taking care of first?"

"You might go see that no pesky thing's troublin' my sheep."

Pal at his heels, Dan raced down to where the fat sheep were at their
endless task of cropping grass. They looked at him with mildly surprised
eyes and continued to crop. Dan circled the sheep three times, petted
the gentle creatures, and was more than a little disappointed because
there seemed to be no immediate need of his protective services. But he
did not lose hope, there was still a lot of Granny's hill left.

Molly, Granny's placid old cow, and Ephraim, Granny's mule, were as well
off as the sheep. Dan sighed, then became a little excited when four
blackbirds winged out of the trees to scratch in Granny's garden. He
stalked them carefully. But before he could come near enough, Pal
charged the blackbirds and sent them in jittery flight back to the
trees.

Dan circled the foot of the hill, looking hard for something from which
Granny should be protected. But all he found was a cottontail rabbit
that confounded the fleet Pal by ducking into a burrow three inches in
front of his nose. Dan wandered back to Granny's house just in time for
lunch.

That, consisting of bread much softer and better than any Abel Tarkman
sold, butter, delicately-spiced strawberry preserves, goblets of milk,
and a crisp apple turnover smothered in cream, was better than any Dan
had eaten, even at the Jackson School for Boys.

Suddenly homesick, he thought of the school and all it had meant to him,
then put the thought behind him. He had left the school because he was
driven by a mission that would not let him rest and would never permit
him to have peace until it was fulfilled. Until it was, he must think
of nothing else; he shouldn't even think seriously of going peddling
with Jeff but he couldn't help that. Then his faith restored itself.
Jeff was all-wise and all-powerful. Jeff had promised him that justice
would be done. Dan was a bit ashamed of his doubts.... Unable to swallow
another bite, he pushed his plate back and lingered over it. Granny, who
hadn't had a hungry boy to satisfy in far too long, was shaping an apple
pie at the table and Dan's eyes lingered on her. The big wood stove cast
a pleasant glow into the room, and tantalizing odors promised much to
come. Dan licked his lips, the faint beginning of fresh hunger rising on
the very heels of the meal he had just eaten.

Dan wrinkled his brows. He had been sent to look after Granny, and look
after her he would. But she didn't seem to need any looking-after right
now and the forest surrounding the hill was an inviting place. He asked,
"Is everything all right, Granny?"

"Land! It's right as rain since you got here. Haven't felt this safe in
a dog's age."

"Would you still feel safe if Pal and me went down in the woods this
afternoon?"

"Can you beat that? I was just about to ask you if you would! What you
goin' to do there, Dan?"

"Look around and make sure nothing's lurking too near."

"Good! Good! If you can spare the time, you might bring a few trout for
us to sup on."

"Oh, boy!"

Dan whooped from his chair. With Pal bustling at his heels, he ran out
to the garden. He loved to fish, his father had taught him how to catch
trout, and Granny's accustomed tackle, a hook and line tied to a willow
pole, hung over the door. In the spring's damp overflow Dan grubbed
until he had filled his pocket with fat worms. Then he snatched the pole
from over the doorway and raced down to the little stream that from the
hilltop wound like a silver ribbon through the forest.

He strung a worm on his hook, crawled cautiously up to a pool and
dropped the worm gently, watching with bated breath the ripples that
spread. A trout surged from the depths, struck viciously, and Dan drew
his wriggling catch in. Deftly he slipped it onto a willow stringer.

Stringer in one hand, pole in the other, he sneaked up to another pool
and caught another trout. Mindful of the pies Granny was making, he
decided that he needed no more than two trout for himself because his
appetite must be saved for more important things. Granny might eat
three. Dan had four trout on his stringer when Pal growled.

Hackles raised, ears alert, nose questing, he peered up-stream. Dan
stopped, not knowing what was coming but sure that Pal wouldn't growl
for no reason. Dragging the dog with him, the boy slipped into the brush
and a moment later Barr Whitney appeared.

He was fishing, too, but instead of a willow stringer he carried a
buckskin creel into which he slipped trout as he caught them. Dan held
his breath and at the same time did his best to control his rising rage.
He wished mightily that he had brought the shotgun, but so far there had
been no indication that he would need it. Watching Barr come nearer, he
made himself very small.

If he did not move, maybe Barr wouldn't see him. But when the man came
opposite Dan, he swerved and splashed across the creek. Trousers
dripping, seeming like some wet monster that emerged from the water, he
had only a glance for the growling Pal. But he thrust a hand inside his
shirt and the boy knew that he had a weapon of some sort concealed
there. Dan quieted the growling Pal by gently stroking him.

"What be ye doin' here, boy?"

Dan glared. "I don't talk to no blamed Whitneys!"

Barr's eyes clouded. "Mind your tongue, boy."

"I won't mind it! But one of you Whitneys will wish you'd minded
yourselves when Jeff and me find out who killed my pop!"

"We will?"

"Yes, you will! And me and Jeff are on the track."

"You be?"

Jeff's image came to stand beside Dan, so that he no longer felt small,
alone and so terribly frightened. With his friend beside him, he could
do anything. "Ha!" he exploded. "You think Jeff's a peddler, but he's
not." Dan cast desperately for an apt description and thought of the
most awesome image his mind could conjure up. "He's a policeman. A real
policeman. Now he's gone into Ackerton for more policemen, and soon's he
gets some, they'll get every one of you darned Whitneys. You wait!
You'll be sorry, Jeff said so!"

"So-o," Barr Whitney purred. "So-o."

"Aren't you--Aren't you going to do anything to me?"

"Can't think of ary I'd do, 'cept mebbe string you on the hook an' use
you for bait."

No longer interested in fishing, Barr Whitney splashed back across the
creek and disappeared in the forest. Immensely gratified, Dan watched
him go.

He'd told those Whitneys.

       *       *       *       *       *

Except that the fluffy kitten did not like the bird cage and expressed
his dislike with frequent far-carrying "_miaouws_" that attracted the
attention of everyone else in the day coach, Jeff's trip from Ackerton
to Delview was almost routine. It was not entirely so because twice the
conductor threatened either to take the kitten into the baggage car or
throw Jeff and his luggage off the train. Both times a chorus of dissent
rose from the six other passengers in the car. The train did not make as
many stops as the one from Delview to Ackerton had, but it was equally
slow and the kitten provided diversion.

When they finally reached Delview, the kitten stood erect and glared at
everything in sight. Obviously he was a creature of great character and
he would fit in perfectly on Granny's hill.

Pack on his back and the caged kitten dangling from his right hand, Jeff
strode down Delview's main street. He had decided, as he usually did, to
guide himself by whatever circumstances seemed to require. If he felt
too tired, he would put up at one of Delview's two hotels overnight. But
the events of the day, particularly his astounding success with Granny's
tapestries, had roused him to a pitch of enthusiasm so high that he was
not at all tired. The star-lighted night was ideal for walking and Jeff
made up his mind to go right through to Smithville. He should get there
some time in the early morning hours. He was anxious to see Dan again
and to watch Granny's eyes when he told her what he had done with her
tapestries.

He was hungry, but the first cafÃ© he entered was one of Delview's
exclusive eating places and the late diners who still lingered there
stared in horror at the caged kitten. A waiter asked him to leave, and
Jeff did not feel like arguing the point. The second cafÃ©, not so
pretentious and presided over by a fat man with a completely bald head
and a clean apron, was less particular. Jeff laid his pack down, put the
cage on a chair and ordered,

"Steak, fried potatoes and coffee. Heavy on all three and a saucer of
milk for the kitten."

"Sure, bud, sure."

The fat man poked a pudgy finger at the kitten, who crouched in the cage
and evidently imagined himself unseen. He sprang suddenly, and when he
leaped against the cage's door, it burst open. The kitten slithered
through, jumped to the table, gave everything in the restaurant a
haughty look, scrambled to Jeff's shoulder and began to purr
contentedly.

"Cute lil' feller!" the fat man said admiringly. "Why do you keep him
caged?"

Jeff saw opportunity. The cage had been only a means for getting the
kitten from Ackerton to Granny's. But if the kitten preferred Jeff's
shoulder, he was welcome to ride there. The fat man was obviously
interested in the cage.

"Usually I don't," Jeff admitted. "I got the cage to bring him through
from Ackerton." He added, as though it were an afterthought, "Darn'
thing cost me two dollars."

"_Hmm._ Need the cage any more?"

"I don't know."

"My wife's been lookin' for such. She keeps birds. What'll you take for
it?"

Jeff forsook bargaining. His pack was full, and since the kitten seemed
happy on his shoulder, he did not want to carry the cage to Smithville.

"Swap for the dinner."

"It's a swap."

The fat man, who apparently was also the cook, went into the kitchen. He
came back with a platter containing a huge steak and an ample supply of
potatoes. He also had a mug of coffee that held at least a pint. The
kitten scrambled from Jeff's shoulder to the table top, turned up his
nose at the saucer of milk placed before him, and looked appealingly at
Jeff's steak.

Jeff grinned. This kitten knew what he wanted and was willing to try for
it. Jeff fed him a small piece of steak, then another, and a third. Only
when Jeff firmly refused to give him any more did he turn and lap up
every bit of the milk. When it was time to go, he climbed back on Jeff's
shoulder and pressed his naked nose and pads against his friend's neck,
where they would stay warm.

Jeff walked swiftly through the cool night, stopping every hour or so to
rest. He enjoyed every second of it.

Dawn was faint in the sky when they came to Smithville, and rising and
stretching on Jeff's shoulder, the kitten greeted it with a hearty
_miaouw_.

"Who's there?" It was the constable, Bill Ellis.

"Jeff Tarrant," Jeff called.

"I've been waiting for you."

Even though the constable was only half-seen, there was about him a
great hesitation that was mingled with a certain furtiveness as he came
through the darkness. Jeff waited, more than a little surprised.

Bill Ellis came nearer and whispered, "Where you been?"

"Why--Ackerton."

The kitten miaouwed again and Bill Ellis took a backward step. "What's
that?"

"Just a kitten that I'm bringing to Granny Wilson."

There was vast urgency in Bill Ellis' voice as he said, "Don't go there.
Turn around and get out of the hills. Don't come back."

"Why?"

"Never mind why. Just go."

"I'm going to Granny's."

Bill Ellis' shrug was more sensed than seen. "You got a gun?"

"Why--no."

"Where is it?"

"At Granny's. By the way, here's the letter from the school."

He took the letter from an inside pocket and handed it over. Bill Ellis
accepted it, but it seemed unimportant.

"If you won't run," he said, "get to Granny's and get your gun while
darkness lasts. Don't go anywhere again without it."

"But--"

"Do as I say and--" there was a definite note of fear in Bill Ellis'
voice--"don't tell anybody I told you."

He turned and walked swiftly away, as though the peddler had suddenly
become an outcast or tainted being with whom he must not have further
contact. Jeff stood a moment, completely bewildered. Why this unexpected
warning? What had come into the hills since he'd left for Ackerton? Why
was Bill Ellis afraid?

Jeff called softly, "Bill."

The constable waited. Jeff trotted to him.

"Tell me some more."

"I've told you enough. Don't go out unless you can protect yourself. I
can do nothing for you, and the best thing you can do is run."

"Nobody would gun down an unarmed man."

"Don't be a fool."

"I see. Bill, did Johnny Blazer have a gun when he was found?"

"No. Leave me now. It's growing lighter."

Jeff resumed his journey up the road, and the kitten stretched all four
paws against his neck. Shaking his head uncertainly, he did not turn
aside when he came to Johnny Blazer's cabin. Bill Ellis had told him to
get to Granny's and arm himself--before daylight. He'd better do it.

The sun was just rising when Jeff came to Granny's green hill, and he
heard Pal's happy roar of welcome. He quickened his steps, and even on
this hill of peace he had an uncomfortable feeling that he was watched
by furtive eyes. Johnny Blazer had been shot down in cold blood.

At the door, he composed himself. Granny and Dan must not be worried.
When he entered the cabin, an ecstatic Pal flung himself forward and
Jeff tickled the big dog's ears. He turned to meet Granny, who always
rose with the sun.

"Hiya, Granny!" He plucked the kitten from his shoulder. "I brought you
a present!"

"Oh, the love!"

Granny cuddled the kitten against her cheek. Knowing experienced hands
and instantly liking Granny almost as much as she loved him, the kitten
licked her cheek with a pink tongue and fell to purring. Rubbing sleepy
eyes, pajama-clad Dan came from his bedroom.

"Jeff!"

"Hi, Dan!"

"My land!" Granny's eyes sparkled like sunshine on dewdrops. "I'll make
some breakfast right away."

"What'd you see in Ackerton?" Dan asked eagerly. "What'd you see in
Ackerton, Jeff."

"Hang on to your horses!" Jeff laughed. "I'll tell you in good time.
Granny, I sold your tapestries."

"Did you now?"

"Couldn't get what they're worth, though," Jeff said sadly.

"Land! Had no idea they were worth anything."

"I got two hundred dollars."

"Jeff!" Granny almost dropped the kitten.

"I did, Granny. Four times as much as I told you I'd get."

"But--"

"And there's a place for more."

Granny stroked the kitten and there was a look of near sadness in her
eyes. After a moment she said gently, "It seems almost sinful, that much
for aught so small."

"It's not," Jeff assured her. "The man who bought them from me will make
a profit, too."

"He can do that and welcome he is. Land! Who would have thought it? Two
hundred dollars! Half would do me for a year."

"All would do you for two years."

Granny shook her head. "No, Jeff. For sixty-four years I've abided here
and never had a hundred dollars all at once. Never missed it, either,
'cept when Enos was sick. I might have paid a doctor for him. If you
see fit to give me half, I'll take it should I have need of aught that
is not at my hand. Half is yours."

Jeff hesitated. He worked for profit, but somehow it hadn't seemed right
to make any on Granny. Still, as far as she was concerned, a hundred
dollars was a vast sum and obviously she had gone as far as she intended
to go.

Granny laughed. "We'll leave it that way and I'll have more ta--Oh,
hang! I keep forgettin' the name. More cloths the next time you go. It
seems a mort of pay for what pleasures me so dear. Now I'll rouse up
some eatables."

She baked delicious pancakes, fried a heaping platter of sausage and put
them on the table. Granny and Dan listened intently, prompting him if he
omitted the smallest detail, as Jeff told everything about his trip to
Ackerton.

When he had finished, he looked pointedly at Dan, declaring, "And
finally, I arranged for you to go back to school in September."

"I'm not going," Dan said firmly.

"You must go," Jeff urged. "Dan, you and I can build up a good business
here, but unless we always want to carry peddlers' packs, one of us has
to know business methods. The place to learn them is in school."

"I want to carry a pack."

"You'll have your chance; it isn't going to work that fast. Think of ten
or maybe even fifteen years from now. Imagine a trading post in
Smithville and a store in Ackerton with BLAZER AND TARRANT ENTERPRISES
in gold letters a foot high across both of 'em." Jeff grinned. "We
could cut out the Ltd. If we were partners, we wouldn't be limited any
more."

Dan said stubbornly, "I can't go."

"Could you if--if you were satisfied about your pop?"

Dan hesitated. "You promise, Jeff?"

"I promise."

"Before I go?"

"Before you go."

"Then," Dan sighed, "I reckon I can go back."

"Good," Jeff said quickly. "Now I want you to stay here and keep Pal
with you. I'm going away for a little while."

"Where you going, Jeff?"

"Into Smithville and I'm taking the shotgun."

"I'm going with you."

"Not this time. I have to go alone."

"But--"

"It's wisdom he speaks," Granny said softly. "You bide here, Dan."

"Well--When you coming back, Jeff?"

"I don't know exactly. But I will be back."

"You take a care."

"Now don't be fretting about me." Jeff grinned.

But he was not grinning when, with the shotgun in his right hand and the
paper-loaded shells in his pocket, he left Granny's house and hit the
trail back to Smithville. The time for a showdown was here.

Jeff planned as he walked. He had always known that he would stop
wandering and settle down when and if he found a place he liked well
enough, and he liked these hills. Though he'd never been able to imagine
himself confined to any one small spot, the hills were not small. They
presented a challenge he liked. The fact that he'd have to fight for his
right to be here, and that there were problems to be solved, was not
extraordinary. He'd always had to fight and there'd always been
problems.

Jeff knew suddenly what he had never known before, his whole life had
been almost desperately lonely. He hadn't thought of it in such a light
because there had been no fair basis for comparison. Never having been
anything except lonely, he could not know what it was to be otherwise.
Now he had Dan, Granny, Pal, and a genuine love for all three. They were
his, and having them was good.

He had no illusions about becoming very rich, for he saw no great wealth
in the offing. There would be a comfortable living, with always enough
variety so that there would be continual zest. The hill people needed
what the outside world could offer, but without someone to act as
intermediary, they had almost no chance of getting it. Those of the
outside world delighted in the products of the hills, and they had the
money to pay for them. Nobody would be cheated.

Jeff put these thoughts behind him. First things must always be first,
and before he did anything else he had to meet, and fight, whoever was
gunning for him. For Dan's sake, and his own conscience, he must bring
to justice whoever had shot Johnny Blazer. He could do neither with
words, for it had come to guns. But before he could use the shotgun
effectively, he had to have live ammunition for it. He wished mightily
that he had left at least one shell loaded.

Wanting only to see if anything had been disturbed there, Jeff swung
aside when he came to Johnny Blazer's cabin. He entered.

Inside, each man armed with a rifle that swung at once to cover Jeff,
were Pete, Barr, Yancey, Grant and Dabb Whitney.




11. THE TALKING TREE


They stood along the wall, unkempt and untidy, but there was something
about them that was as cold and deadly as the whine of a bullet or the
fangs of a viper. They were lean as weasels, and as fast. The rifles
they held, from the repeating carbines belonging to Barr, Yancey, Dabb
and Grant, to Pete's single-shot fifty caliber, seemed a part of them
and they had grown up with those rifles. These were men who had no shots
to waste and who therefore must make every one count. They would be
shamed if they shot a turkey or grouse anywhere except through the head
and they had only raucous jeers for whoever was unable to shoot as well.

"Turn 'raound!" Pete ordered gruffly.

"Not here ya fool!" Barr countermanded the order. "A fair half of
Smithville'll come a'racin'."

Pete sneered. "Let 'em come. They won't find us."

"No!" Obviously Barr was in command. "This goes my way."

Jeff stood, cold and shaken and knowing that, when he walked into the
cabin, he had walked into his own death. These must be the men about
whom Bill Ellis had warned him. But why should the Whitneys want to kill
him? Summoning all his past experience with Tarrant Enterprises, Ltd.,
which had taught him to try to appear outwardly cool in the hottest of
spots, Jeff did his best to seem not only calm but to take full command
of the situation.

"You're in my cabin," he said quietly.

"We knaow," Pete's eyes were venom-laden, "but you won't be needin' it
fer long."

The rest of the Whitneys said nothing. Jeff studied them and tried, by
reading their faces, to determine his next act.

Pete, so poisoned with hatred that it distorted his face, offered
nothing. Yancey, Dabb and Grant might be swayed if it were not for Barr.
Dominating the rest, and with them, at the same time he stood apart from
them. He was strong, Pete was weak--and for that very reason extremely
dangerous. The rest needed leadership. But while there was no lust in
Barr's eyes, neither was there any mercy. Jeff looked steadily at him
and kept his voice quiet.

"What's it about?"

"We liked ya, peddler." Barr's voice was very grave. "We liked ya an'
you traded fair with your goods. But there's no bit of room in these
hills for a policeman."

"Policeman!" Jeff exploded.

"We know," Barr seemed downcast, as though someone he trusted had
betrayed him. "The boy told us."

"Told you what?"

"All--an' 'twill serve ya naught to plead or ask pardon. If you're a
man, be one now."

Jeff's head whirled. Apparently, while he was in Ackerton, one or more
of the Whitneys had met Dan and the boy had spun some fantastic tale.
Jeff looked over his captors again and saw only unyielding
determination. He took a deep breath before he spoke.

"What did Dan tell you?"

"Enough," Barr grunted. "We had the truth from a babe's mouth."

"But--"

Dabb interrupted. "What made ye set your mind on the thought that a
Whitney kil't Blazer?"

"Didn't you?"

"We do not pry into killin's," Barr said. "You erred when you did."

Another piece fitted into the puzzle. Evidently Dan had told whoever it
was he had met that he and Jeff were out to avenge Johnny, and doubtless
he'd said that Jeff was an officer. Jeff pondered Dabb's question and
Barr's comment. It was possible, even probable, that only his killer
knew who had shot Johnny. Whoever was guilty would be a fool if he was
anything except close-mouthed about it.

"Leave us shoot him," Pete said nasally. "'Twill serve naught to do
elsewise."

"I said we'd wait," Barr growled.

Jeff breathed a little easier. The Whitneys intended to shoot him, but
not immediately and he wondered what they were waiting for and why.
Perhaps, as Barr had mentioned, they were too close to Smithville, and
in order to remain unseen, perhaps they would wait until night to take
him out. Maybe there were other reasons, but evidently he had a little
time. Jeff took a shot in the dark.

"I'll be missed in Ackerton."

"We know," Barr muttered. "The boy said it all."

Jeff moistened dry lips with his tongue. His chance shot had ricocheted;
whatever story Dan had concocted tied in with Jeff's trip to Ackerton.
He had to think his way out of this.

"People will be looking for me."

"They won't find you," Barr promised. "But could be they'll find us."

Jeff said pointedly, "Five against one?"

"You had a shotgun when you come in."

"And if I'd known who was waiting, I'd have come shooting. But you can
all cheer up. Maybe those who look for me won't expect to need guns, and
you can take them just like you did me. Maybe they won't even have guns.
Then you can shoot them down from ambush, _like you did Johnny Blazer_!"

Six pairs of eyes regarded him, and only Pete's remained unchanged. The
rest shifted from deliberate purposefulness to cold fury, and Barr's
face turned white. His lips tautened, and he bit his words off and spat
them at Jeff.

"Ye lie!"

"I do not lie!"

Swiftly Barr closed the distance between them. His left hand snaked
forward and his open palm struck Jeff's cheek. It was not a blow that a
man might offer a worthy antagonist, but an insulting slap. Barr's eyes
were glowing coals.

"Ye lie, policeman! Nary a man in the hills shot Blazer thataway!"

Jeff snarled back, "I don't lie and I can prove it!"

His face still white, Barr stepped back. He jerked his rifle to
shooting position and lowered it reluctantly. Tense as stretched
buckskin, he studied Jeff and snapped, "Say those words ag'in!"

"Johnny Blazer not only had no gun when he was shot, but whoever shot
him was hiding when he did it!" Jeff pronounced each word very slowly
and very clearly, as though he were rehearsing a careful speech.

"How d'ye know he lacked aught to shoot back?"

"I--" Jeff thought of Bill Ellis and caught himself in time. "I saw
someone who found him on my Ackerton trip. Johnny had no gun when they
picked him up."

"Shut up!" Barr whirled furiously on his cousin who had started to
speak. He said, more to himself than to anyone else, "Blazer's guns
_was_ found in his cabin."

Jeff laughed tauntingly. "You hillbillies are brave men! Now all you
have to do is admit that whoever shot Johnny was hiding in the brush."

Still furious, Barr regarded him steadily. "How do ya know that?"

"All I had to do was look."

"What'd ya look at?"

Jeff answered contemptuously, "I wouldn't expect any of you to think
that far, but the bullet went clear through Johnny. There are enough
trees and shrubs around so that it had to nick one of them. It's easy to
figure the angle it came from."

Jeff held his breath. He himself had not thought of this until now, but
it had to be right. Johnny Blazer was a woodsman. If whoever shot him
had been in the open, Johnny would have seen him. Because he was
unarmed, he probably would have died anyhow. But he would have died in
the brush for he would at least have tried to escape.

Slow-thinking Dabb digested Jeff's statement and spoke solemnly. "Hit's
right, Barr. None among us thought to look."

Barr was momentarily bewildered. "None saw the need."

"But need there might be."

"Go look, Dabb."

"I'll gao, too," Pete offered.

"Dabb's goin'."

Rifle in the crook of his arm, Dabb left the cabin. Jeff waited
uneasily. Dabb's education might be a bit short in the conjugation of
verbs and the more complex forms of mathematics, but it had taught him
all about ballistics. When he came back he would know whether or not
Johnny had been shot from ambush.

If he hadn't been--Jeff looked at Barr's stormy eyes and shuddered.

Twenty minutes later, Dabb returned. He came slowly, and somewhat
shrunkenly, as though he had been both derided and belittled. He stood
in the doorway, not looking at the rest, and when he spoke his voice was
muffled and reluctant.

"Hit's true, Barr. Hit's true enough. Whosoever shot Blazer was
crouchin' in a little patch of evergreens a hunnert an' fifty steps from
the road." He said, as though that was vastly important, "With my own
eyes I saw his crouch. He broke some twigs the better to see."

Something came into the cabin with him, an unseen but heavy and mournful
something that seemed, within itself, to rob everyone of the power of
speech. The Whitneys looked sidewise at each other and Barr spoke
slowly,

"Thus ye saw?"

"Thus I saw."

"Whar did the lead strike?"

"The tree," Dabb answered dully. "Hit's buried in the tree."

There was silence which Barr broke with a soul-desolated cry, "This day
I know shame!"

They were weighted as though by heavy burdens, and Jeff understood why
they scourged themselves. By the cowardly action of one of their number,
something they could never get back had been taken from all of them.
They must hang their heads because among them walked a man who was not a
man. Jeff rubbed salt into their wounds.

"You can all be proud of yourselves."

It was as though they did not hear. This terrible crime, this heinous
sin, had been committed, but they did not want to believe.

Grant said hopefully, "Maybe 'twar an outlander."

"'Twar no outlander," Barr muttered. "'Twas a hill man."

Jeff trembled, fired with another idea. If the tree could talk, he had
thought, it might tell who shot Johnny Blazer. _The tree could talk!_

"Are you afraid to find out who did it?" he challenged.

Barr glowered at him. "An' how do we do that!"

"Dig the bullet out of the tree."

"Pay nao heed to him!" Pete intoned. "He would but tangle us an' lead us
from him."

"Hold your tongue!" Barr ordered gruffly. "No man walks safe with one
among us who shoots men as he would a varmint! Get the bullet, Dabb!"

Dabb left a second time and Jeff hoped his wildly beating heart could
not be heard. To these mountain men killing was right, as long as men
met in a fair fight. But it was soul-blackening, the extreme depths of
degradation, to kill as Johnny Blazer's killer had, and that killer was
about to be known. Only one rifle could have fired the fatal shot, and
the hill men would recognize that bullet and know who had fired it. Or
would they? Four of the Whitneys present carried thirty caliber rifles
and there must be more in the hills. Jeff's hopes alternately rose and
waned.

Then Dabb came back and held up the leaden slug so all could see. Four
pairs of eyes swung accusingly on Pete. Mushrooming where it had struck
Johnny and then the tree, the slug still retained its shape where it had
fitted its brass shell. There could be no mistake; it was fifty caliber.

Sweat broke out on Pete's forehead. "Hit--Hit--'Twarn't me!"

Barr spat, "'Twar you!"

"He--he stole pelts out'en my traps!"

"You met him unfair!"

Pete half screamed. "He had a rifle an' shot afore I did!"

Barr said relentlessly, "Whar was his rifle?"

"I--I brought it back here!"

"He had no rifle! You lay like a whiskered cat afore a mouse's den an'
gave him no fairness. Do not add a lie to cowardice."

Jeff said eagerly, "Now you know, Barr. Now all of you know, and Dan did
tell part of the truth. I promised him that we'd find out who shot his
father. It was all we wanted and all we will want. I am not a
policeman."

Barr looked squarely at him. "So you say."

"It's true. Go to Ackerton and find out what I did there. And think a
little. Neither the Whitneys nor anyone else can take the law into their
own hands and forever keep it there. Do the right thing now."

"An' what is that?"

"Take Pete into Smithville and turn him over to Bill Ellis. He'll get a
fair trial."

"_Pah!_" Yancey exploded. "Give our kin into the law's keep? 'Tis best
to shoot him ourselves!"

"Stop the talkin'." Barr was still looking at Jeff. "You say ye are a
peddler an' naught else?"

"I say so."

"Yet, you saw fit to beholden yourself to the boy? You took it upon
yourself to tell him you'd settle with whosoever shot his father?"

"I did."

"Then, be ye peddler or policeman, you shall."

"What do you mean?"

"We'll bide here through the day," Barr pronounced. "With the night we
shall go to a cabin on Trilley Ridge. You have a shotgun an'," Barr
inclined a contemptuous head toward Pete, "he has a rifle. With the
dawn, both at the same time, ye'll walk on Trilley Ridge. If you come
down the ridge, peddler, ye'll be free to come an' go amongst us. If
Pete comes down it, he has a twenty-four hours to leave the hills. I
shall sit with ye in the cabin. Grant, Dabb an' Yancey shall be at the
foot of Trilley Ridge, to shoot should one of ye flee rather than
fight."

Grant, Dabb and Yancey nodded solemn agreement. Jeff's head reeled. With
tomorrow's dawn, he was to fight a death duel with Pete Whitney. Barr
would be with them all night to make sure that things went according to
his fantastic plan. Dabb, Grant and Yancey would be waiting to kill
whoever violated the terms of the duel. If Jeff won, even though he
would be privileged to remain in the hills, he would have killed a man.
Regardless of what happened or who won, the Whitneys would have rid
themselves of an unwelcome kinsman and closed the mouth of one who might
be a policeman.

Jeff licked dry lips. He had never killed a man and knew that he could
never kill. He tried to think of some way out, of something he could do,
and there was nothing. Jeff licked his lips again.

"What say you?" Barr demanded.

"It--it's a crazy idea!"

"'Tis what ye wanted, what ye told the boy you'd git."

"I didn't tell him I'd get it this way. For heaven's sake, man, listen
to reason! The law, and not me, should take care of this."

Barr's eyes flamed. "Are ye a policeman?"

"No!"

"The boy said different."

"Mebbe," Grant said slowly, "'twould be best to shoot him. I'll go on
Trilley Ridge with--with who used to be my kin."

Jeff heaved a great sigh. First things first, always a new customer down
the road, and if he went on the ridge, he would have time to think. If
he did not, his hours were numbered anyway. He said slowly, "Let it be
your way, Barr."

Barr said quietly, "'Tis well ye say so, for 'twould not be right should
a Whitney shoot a Whitney or be shot by one. D'ye lack aught?"

"My pack."

Barr looked curiously at him but Jeff made no attempt to satisfy his
curiosity. He'd always been able to pull almost anything he needed out
of his pack and there should be something to help him now. He couldn't
think of what it was, but the pack had been a part of him for so long
that he would feel better if he had it.

"Whar's the pack?" Barr asked.

"At Granny Wilson's."

"Get it an' fetch it," Barr directed Yancey. "D'ye need aught else?"

Jeff's brain was still whirling. "No."

Barr glanced inquiringly at Pete, who stared like a vicious animal and
said nothing. There was finality in Barr's words. "Ask no more for it
shall not be given. Both have had your say."

The words hammered dully at Jeff's ears. Then he awoke with a start and
swallowed twice. For the first time he became aware of the shotgun
shells that weighted his pocket. They were even more harmless than so
many stones, for they were still loaded with paper.

But he'd been given a chance to speak and he had not spoken.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pal went wild with joy when Jeff returned from Ackerton. He stayed as
close as he could get, for he had missed his master greatly and needed
him sorely. He smirked at the white kitten when he spotted it, but made
no hostile move because Jeff had brought it. Wholly contented, Pal lay
at Jeff's feet while he breakfasted and talked with Granny and Dan.

When Jeff rose to leave, Pal danced happily to the door and wagged his
tail in anticipation. Everything was once more as it had been and
should be. They were about to go peddling together on the trails. The
big dog glanced back to see if Dan was coming, too. Instead, the boy
grasped his collar.

"You stay here."

Pal flattened his ears and drooped his tail. But he was not allowed to
go. For a full minute he stood hopefully in front of the door. Then he
went sadly back into the kitchen.

Playing with a ball of paper that Granny had wadded up and thrown on the
floor, the fluffy kitten arched its back and spat. Pal paid no
attention. His heart was heavy and joy had gone with Jeff.

All the rest of the morning he was a wooden dog who did not even rouse
himself when Yancey Whitney came to the door, said that Jeff wanted his
pack, and went away with it. That afternoon he followed Dan about the
hill, but he had no eyes for the sheep, the cow, the mule, and he lacked
zest even for chasing blackbirds that came to pillage Granny's garden.
He cared only about the trail up which Jeff had come and down which he
had gone again.

That night, after Dan and Granny had gone to bed, Pal padded restlessly
over to the door. Eagerly he sniffed every wind that blew and every
scent that tickled his nose. He knew when six deer, feeling safe in the
cover of night, came out of the forest and climbed the hill to graze in
the sheep pasture. He heard a mouse rustle, and he was aware when a
night-flying owl cruised past the door. All these things he smelled or
heard. He felt only the absence of his master.

The night was very deep and very black when Pal's yearning for Jeff
became unbearable. He pushed his nose against the door, and when he did
so the latch rattled slightly. He pricked up his ears and bent his head
toward the noise, but he did not understand any of the mysterious ways
by which people fastened things.

Softly he reared against the door, sniffing at every crack. Getting
down, he trembled anxiously. Then, inch by inch, he began a second
inspection of the door.

It was completely accidental when, in raising his head, he pushed the
latch upward and the door swung open. Pal did not linger to think about
anything else; he knew only that the way was clear. He flew into the
night, found Jeff's trail and raced along it.

At Johnny Blazer's cabin, he scented Jeff's trail and that of five
Whitneys--the pack-laden Yancey had gone back there--leading into the
hills. Pal followed along.

He halted momentarily at the foot of Trilley Ridge, for Dabb Whitney was
sitting on a big rock and the smell of his pipe was rank and heavy in
the darkness. Pal slipped past, knowing that he could not be seen in the
night. He caught the odor of wood smoke. Then, mingled with it, were the
scents of Pete and Barr Whitney and of Jeff. Abandoning the trail, Pal
followed his nose to his beloved master.

He came to the cabin and scratched on the door.




12. SURPRISE


They came to the cabin on Trilley Ridge after dark, Jeff and Pete
walking side by side and Barr silent behind them. Jeff balanced the pack
on his shoulders and was glad he had it there. It was an old friend and
had always been a true one. He had been in trouble many times while it
was on his shoulders, but he had never stayed in trouble.

As they walked he tried to pinpoint directions, but because of the
darkness he could not do so. They had left the road for a path so faint
that the casual traveler would not even see it as he passed. There was
another path, and still another, and all of it was country that the hill
men knew well but that Jeff did not know at all. When they finally
reached the cabin, he was sure only that it was north of the road. But
it would not have been an unpleasant journey if Pete had not been
walking with him.

Found out, Pete had retreated sullenly into himself and Jeff again
thought of an animal. But Pete was no ordinary savage thing that might
attack because it was hungry or seeking a fight. He planned, and hidden
behind his weak blue eyes was a crafty brain. Jeff knew that Pete's
only thought revolved around ways to kill him, and it was a cold thing
to know.

The men came to the cabin and Barr said, "This is hit."

Jeff spoke over his shoulder. "You sure the place isn't haunted?"

"No ha'nts." Barr seemed perplexed, as though there was something about
the mission he no longer understood. "Push the door an' go in."

"Sure," Jeff said agreeably.

He opened the door and felt Pete go tense beside him. Jeff gripped his
shotgun with both hands, preparing to bring it crashing down on the
man's head. Pete would kill without imperiling himself, if he could, and
almost his only chance would occur when they entered the dark cabin. But
Barr knew this too.

"Stay here," he ordered his cousin. And to Jeff, "Got a match in your
pocket?"

"Yep."

"Go in by yourself an' light hit. Strike hit to the tallow candle
that'll be settin' on the table."

Jeff entered, felt the cabin's walls enclose him, and had a strange
feeling that Barr Whitney was a complete fool. It would be simple to
swing suddenly, cock the shotgun as he swung and, always supposing he
had some live ammunition, send a leaden hail back through the door. Then
he understood.

Barr was no fool. He had merely gauged Jeff and he knew men. He had
known that Pete would turn and shoot if sent in first, but Jeff would
not. Besides, Jeff thought wryly, though Pete might be forced to stand
in any line of fire that might sweep out the door, Barr would be
elsewhere.

Jeff took a match from his pocket, struck it, and looked around the
cabin. It was one fairly large room, and at the far end was a natural
stone fireplace. There was a table, three chairs, two double bunks built
one on top of the other, cooking utensils hanging from wooden pegs
driven into the wall, and small windows. The cabin was either a
bachelor's home or else it was used only on occasion by some person or
persons who had reason to spend time here. Jeff touched his dying match
to the fat tallow candle that stood on the table and flicked the burned
match onto the floor.

"Come on in," he said cheerfully. "And welcome to our happy home!"

Pete's face was cold, and that was almost the only expression. He strode
to a chair, pulled it away from the table and sat down with his rifle
across his lap. Jeff stood his shotgun in a corner and turned to face
Barr.

"Snug little den," he said pleasantly.

Barr looked puzzled and said nothing. However, the burning determination
and the sternness were partly gone from his face. This was a serious
business but Jeff was not accepting it seriously. Never flicking his
eyes from his captives, Barr pulled a chair very close to the door.

"Here we be," he pronounced, "an' here we stay 'til the sun lightens the
topmost twigs on the big pines."

"That's cute," Jeff declared admiringly. "That's really cute!"

Barr glared at him. "What is?"

"Your description. ''Til the sun lightens the topmost twigs on the big
pines.' Not exactly poetry, but it has a poetic spirit. Well, if we're
going to be here all night, we should do something besides glare at each
other."

He slid out of the pack, laid it on the table and stretched. Then he
stifled a yawn. He'd had no sleep last night and evidently he'd get none
tonight, but more than once he'd had to stay awake as long, and he could
do it again.

"If you be weary," Barr indicated the bunks, "you might sleep."

"Thanks," Jeff declined, "but I'm afraid I'd have bad dreams. Besides,
this may be my last chance to talk with you. What'll we talk about,
Barr?"

Barr broke out suddenly, "I can't plumb ya. Can't plumb ya a'tall!"

Jeff said smoothly, "It's easy. I'm not a complex person. I'll tell you
my life story if you want to hear it. Won't cost you a cent."

"I swan!" Barr ejaculated. "I could like ye a lot if'n I didn't--"

"If you didn't think I was a policeman? Sorry I can't change your mind
on that subject. But I'm not."

Barr's eyes searched Jeff's. "Why'd the boy say it?"

Jeff shrugged. "If I knew why boys say things, I'd be a lot smarter than
I am."

"But ya did tell the boy ya'd find out who kil't Blazer?"

"Yup."

"Yet, now ye got the chanst, you'd pass it by?"

"This is a chance? I don't want to kill anybody. I never promised Dan
anything except that we'd find his father's murderer. Afterwards I was
going to turn him over to the law."

Barr wrinkled his brows. "But ye be no policeman?"

"I'm not," Jeff said flatly. "Barr, what had you intended to do with
me?"

It was Barr's turn to shrug. "Shoot ya."

"And in your opinion, that was right?"

Barr said fiercely, "A body don't stop to think should he tromp on its
haid does he find a pizen snake on his h'arthstone!"

Jeff lapsed into silence. His life story he had offered in jest, but he
understood Barr's. His ancestors had been among the first to come to
America, and they had come because there wasn't room enough for them in
Europe. But neither had there been room enough in America's scattered
colonies for people so fierce, reckless and proud. They had either left
the settlements of their own accord or been driven out. They had wanted
above all to live by their own personal inclinations and not by rules
which they had little part in making. Always they had sought the wildest
and most inaccessible places because only there could they live as they
must.

Barr Whitney typified this wild independence, which couldn't possibly
endure. Sooner or later even the hill clans must submit to the forward
march of civilization and Jeff hoped that the advancing juggernaut would
not crush them completely. The spirit they represented always had been
and always would be necessary to free people. Probably the older ones
would go down fighting; certainly they would never learn that they must
bend themselves to others. Perhaps their children, or their children's
children, would.

Jeff shrugged. That was to come. This was now, and neither civilization
nor anything else had as yet tamed Barr Whitney. Jeff rubbed a hand on
his trousers.

"You ail?" Barr asked.

"My hand's twitching."

"The oil of shunk an' the grease of b'ar, mixed two of one to one of the
other, an' cooked on a hick'ry fire when the moon's near horn points to
water, will drive out ary itch."

Jeff grinned. "Can't wait for the moon's near horn to point to water,
and besides I don't want a cure. When my hand twitches, I'm lucky."

Pete moved so swiftly that he seemed in one split second to be sitting
on his chair and then, magically, to be standing with his rifle at half
raise. But quick as he was, Barr was quicker. His rifle cracked, a lock
of hair detached itself from Pete's head to float softly to the floor,
and before the sound died Barr had levered another cartridge into the
chamber. He spoke as casually as though he had just shot at a squirrel.

"Next'un's goin' through your haid, Pete. Si' down."

Pete sat. Barr grinned. Jeff dared let himself think of the prospect
that awaited.

Tomorrow morning, side by side and at exactly the same time, Jeff and
Pete would be allowed to leave the cabin. Jeff pulled his stomach in, as
though he could already feel Pete's slug ripping through it. Again he
pondered escaping, but all he could think of was what he had already
considered.

If he ran, one of the waiting Whitneys would shoot him down when he came
off the ridge. There was little chance of doing anything tonight; Barr
was along to see that he didn't. He couldn't protect himself with paper
bullets. Jeff had a wild notion of whirling as they stepped out the
door, smashing Pete over the head with the muzzle of his shotgun, and
trying to claim him as prisoner. But that was a very wild plan which had
almost no chance of success. Pete was far too quick and far too expert a
rifleman.

Jeff put such thoughts behind him. No man could do anything well if he
tried to do more than one thing at a time, and first things must be
first. He shivered.

"How about a fire, Barr?"

"Lay a blaze if'n ye want. Thar's wood in the box."

Jeff laid a fire, lighted it and stood with his back to the fireplace as
flames crackled. He looked at a darkened window and had a curious
thought that this night would never end. It should, he decided, have
passed long ago. But when he looked at his watch, it was only half past
nine.

He should be hungry but he wasn't. They'd eaten in Johnny Blazer's
cabin, and now he was too nervous to eat. After a very long interval, he
looked again at his watch.

It was a quarter to ten.

Jeff glanced at his pack and created mental images of the goods it
contained. There were knives, fishing tackle, a half dozen new mouth
organs, fiddle strings, gay ribbons, scissors, needles--He had bought
only what the hill people wanted, and among all of it he could not think
of a single article that would help him now.

Jeff set his jaw. Maybe, if there was something to do, time would not
drag so slowly and, besides, he could think better when he was busy.
"Play cards?" he invited.

"No." Barr shook his head.

"Oh, come on!"

Barr tipped his head toward Pete, who sat motionless, with his rifle
across his lap. Unmoving, he missed nothing and was ready at a split
second notice to take advantage of anything that offered.

"Take his rifle away," Jeff urged. "You can still watch him."

"A body has the right to keep his rifle."

"He sure is nursing it." Jeff felt reckless. "How about sitting in,
Pete? We don't have to shoot each other before morning."

Pete refused to answer. Jeff pulled his chair to the table and tried to
entertain himself with solitaire. But he was too tense and strained to
concentrate, and when he found himself adding the four of hearts to the
seven of spades, he shoved the cards across the table and let them lay
there. Restlessly he threw another chunk of wood on the fire and turned
to Barr.

With no noise, and almost without effort, Barr rose. His eyes were alert
and his face was intent. He backed, so that while continuing to command
the cabin and the two in it, he could control the door, too. There was a
rasping scratch on the door and Barr said softly, "See what's thar. See
who's a'visitin'."

Jeff opened the door and Pal panted in. His ears were flat and his tail
hang-dog as, giving Barr a wide berth and glancing suspiciously at Pete,
he went to the far end of the cabin and stood. Not knowing whether or
not he was to be punished for leaving Granny's, he looked expectantly at
his master. Jeff laughed and twitched his fingers.

"Come here, you old flea cage."

Grinning happily, Pal came at once and Jeff brushed his shaggy head with
an affectionate hand. He was less tense and, strangely, his anxiety
lessened. The great dog wagged an ecstatic tail while Jeff continued to
pat his head.

For a short space, delighted to be near each other once more, neither
had paid attention to anything else. Pal licked Jeff's face with a big,
sloppy tongue and wagged everything from his muzzle to the tip of his
tail. He turned to growl at Barr and Pete, and Barr flicked his rifle.

"I wouldn't leave him try it."

"I won't," Jeff promised.

He slipped two fingers beneath Pal's collar, led him over to the table
and sat down. Bending over Pal, as though continuing to caress him, he
hoped Barr could not hear his pounding heart, and was glad his eyes were
hidden. After a moment, Jeff raised his head.

He looked too casually at the candle that flickered a foot from his
hand. Trying to appear disinterested, he gauged Pete's exact distance
and Barr's position. He moistened dry lips with his tongue and reviewed
his suddenly-formed plan.

Even though he risked a burned hand doing it, he was positive that he
could snuff the candle out before Barr could shoot. Then he'd tip the
table over and fight his way out. Jeff nibbled his lower lip and looked
doubtfully at Pal. Barr was supple as an eel and strong as an ox; Jeff
might need help and could he count on Pal?

Barr asked suspiciously, "What ye flustered about?"

Jeff muttered silently at himself. He had a plan. If it was desperate,
the situation called for desperate measures. But everything depended on
surprise. To give Barr the slightest warning would also give him time to
shoot Jeff. It went without saying that he would then be able to shoot
Pal, and Jeff hadn't the least doubt that Barr would be happy to do
both. He forced a laugh.

"It's just nice to see something around here that's not hell-bent to
shoot something else."

Barr remained alert. "Whar'd ye get Blazer's dog?"

"Found him over beyond Cressman," Jeff said truthfully. "Do you keep
dogs?"

"Houn's," Barr admitted. "Wouldn't pester myself with a no-account dog
such as that."

Jeff cast for a way to lull Barr. "Depends on what you want in a dog,
wouldn't you say?"

"Could. What do you want?"

Jeff did his best to look like a man who faces a desperate situation,
but who was mightily cheered because his dog saw fit to track him down.
If he did everything exactly right, and with split-second precision, his
plan had at least an even chance of working.

Escape would not solve everything. Pete would still be unpunished and if
the Whitneys should meet him, Jeff, again, they would not bother to take
him prisoner. They'd shoot on sight. But he could name Johnny Blazer's
killer. That would start things, and maybe he'd be able to finish them.

Regardless of what might happen in the future, this was now. Jeff had to
get out of the cabin before he could do anything else, but it was as
though Barr could read his mind.

"You're ponderin'," he accused.

"Is that a crime in these hills?"

"If," Barr said deliberately, "you try to make a break, I'll kill ye in
your tracks. I have spoke it."

Jeff said irritably, "Don't be a darn fool!"

"Don't you be one, nuther. You're gettin' a chanst."

"Yes," Jeff sighed, "a big chance." He looked again at the candle. "Any
of your hounds ever get you out of jail, Barr?"

"_Pah!_ How might a houn' do such?"

"Well, Pal got me out."

"Those words I mistrust."

"He did," Jeff insisted. "It was in Cressman--"

He told of the Cressman jail and of how he was literally thrown out of
it because, when he played the mouth organ, Pal howled. He spoke of
inquiring the way to Delview as a ruse to throw Pop and Joe Parker from
his trail, for he suspected that they had intended to have him
rearrested there. Instead of going to Delview, he had come over the
hills to Smithville.

Barr chuckled derisively. "Peddlin' teach you sech tall tales?"

"It's true."

"Ha! You toot music an' the dog howls?"

"Let me show you."

Jeff took a mouth organ from his pack, blew a soft note and Pal
responded with a moaning wail that trailed out on a soft soprano note.

Barr seemed dumfounded. "Doggone!"

Jeff's eyes strayed to the candle. Barr rose, wrenched it from its
drippings and put it down at the far end of the table. He resumed his
seat. "I can see best when hit's thar," he announced grimly. "You wa'nt
havin' notions 'bout that candle, was you?"

"Why, no, of course not."

Jeff managed to appear innocent, even while he mentally kicked himself.
His chance had come and gone. There'd be another chance and Barr seemed
more at ease.

"This night I learn't what I knew not. A dog howls to noise."

"This one does."

"Make him do hit ag'in. 'Tis a mighty curious thing."

Jeff blew another note and Pal howled again. Barr's eyes sparkled. An
elemental creature himself, he was interested in the elemental and this
fascinated him. He must find the answer, but while seeking it he did not
forget to keep his eyes on Jeff and Pete.

"Why's he do hit?" he asked.

"I don't know," Jeff admitted. "Can't figure it myself."

"Have him do hit some more."

At the first note, Pal obliged with a banshee wail that subsided, then
gathered force and mounted again. The sound filled the cabin and offered
the illusion of being not only real, but all reality. It was as though
the door burst open of its own accord, and Jeff rubbed his eyes in
disbelief.

Ike Wilson stood framed in the doorway.

He was slim, supple, smiling, but behind the smile there was something
hard as stone and there was nothing to provoke humor in the cocked,
double-barreled shotgun he carried. Half erect in his chair, Barr froze
there. Pete's face turned white. Ike grinned happily.

"Hi, peddler!"

"Hi, Ike! Where the blazes did you come from?"

"Broadview Prison. Stopped by Granny's an' she told me you was about.
Heerd the dog howl an' calc'lated you'd be nigh." His chuckle was rich
and very audible. "I didn't expect a hul nest of you. Good thing I
peered in the window glass afore I come in."

Barr snarled, "This ain't your mix!"

"Oh, yes, it is! Yes, it is my mix! Now just hand me that lil' old rifle
gun, Barr. Stock foremost."

Fighting against so doing but unable to help himself, Barr relinquished
his rifle. Ike threw it through the open door.

"Now, Pete," he coaxed, "I need your'n."

Pete remained rooted. Smiling, but with a deadly something behind the
smile, Ike tightened his finger on the shotgun's trigger.

"Don't like to shoot settin' pat'tidges, but I will."

Pete handed his rifle over. Ike tossed it out and slammed the door.
Holding the shotgun with one hand, he drew a length of buckskin from his
pocket and whipped it straight. He spoke as though he were addressing a
petulant child. "Now just put your hands behin't the chair, Barr. This
shotgun might go off accidental like, an' it makes quite a hole."

Tight-lipped, Barr did as he was ordered. Expertly Ike laced his hands
and then his feet. He approached Jeff apologetically.

"'Feard I'll have to tie you too, peddler."

"But--"

"Now don't gimme no fuss." Ike rubbed the friendly Pal's head. "Jest do
like Uncle Ike says."

Jeff thrust his hands behind the chair and permitted himself to be
bound. Ike slipped a rawhide thong through Pal's collar and tied him to
the chair rung. He stood erect and looked around, his manner that of one
who has just done a job and done it well.

Jeff asked, "What's the big idea, Ike?"

Ike chuckled again. "Business! Say, how come these Whitneys had a gun on
you?"

"Barr," Jeff inclined his head, "had the idea that I'm a policeman."

"Fer snort's sake!" Ike faced Barr. "Your brain soft? He's a peddler an'
a good 'un. I ought to know. I was in jail with him."

"Leave me loose," Barr snarled, "an' I won't hurt ye."

"'Pears to me you won't anyhow."

"Ye'll not git back down the ridge!"

"Now, now," Ike soothed, "jest leave that to Uncle Ike. I got up it,
didn't I?"

Ike whirled to face Pete and something inside of Jeff turned cold. He
had seen angry men, but suddenly he knew that not even Barr Whitney was
as strong in anger as Ike Wilson. It was an inward quality, for
outwardly he remained very gentle and he did not raise his voice.

"I come fer Bucky."

Pete muttered sullenly, "Got nothin' to do with Bucky."

"Oh, yes, you have," Ike corrected him. "Yes, you have. Bucky's still in
Broadview, but you're goin' to help get him out. Bet that if you
strained yourself, you could mind the night we got Wheeler's chickens.
You was goin' to stay behin't, you said, an' leave us know should
somebody come. But when the police come, you was a long ways behin't.
What'd they pay you fer turnin' us in, Pete?"

Sweat glistened on Pete's brow. "I had naught to do with it!"

"You'll never git anywhere, Pete, lyin' in such a way. Are you comin'
like a little man, or am I goin' to scatter your spare parts from here
to Cressman?"

Pete gasped, "What you goin' to do with me?"

"Jest lay in the hills," Ike soothed. "Leastwise we'll lay thar 'til I
can send word to that smart Joe Parker. Goin' to tell him, I am, that I
know who stuck up the Cressman bank. Goin' to tell him that, when Bucky
comes into the hills, he'll find that man tied to a tree. I reckon
Parker'll swap for that."

"If he doesn't," Jeff said suddenly, "you can offer more. Pete killed
Johnny Blazer!"

"He did?" Ike's eyes glowed eagerly. "Now I know I got me a swap! Come
'long, Pete."

Herding his captive, he started for the door. Suddenly he stopped and
ordered, "Wait thar!"

Pete stood still. Ike glided to Jeff, sliced the bonds that tied his
hands, and bent to whisper, "Gimme five minutes, peddler--jest five
minutes an' kiss Granny fer me."

"I will," Jeff promised, "and I'll tell her that you'll deliver one to
her yourself in a few days."

He waited ten minutes before stooping to untie his feet. He rose, and
before freeing Barr he glanced out of one of the small windows.

The first hint of dawn was in the sky and the horizon was endless. He
had found binding ties in these hills, but somehow he had found
limitless freedom, too.




JIM KJELGAARD

was born in New York City. Happily enough, he was still in the
pre-school age when his father decided to move the family to the
Pennsylvania mountains. There young Jim grew up among some of the best
hunting and fishing in the United States. He says: "If I had pursued my
scholastic duties as diligently as I did deer, trout, grouse, squirrels,
etc., I might have had better report cards!"

Jim Kjelgaard has worked at various jobs--trapper, teamster, guide,
surveyor, factory worker and laborer. When he was in the late twenties
he decided to become a full-time writer. He has published several
hundred short stories and articles and quite a few books for young
people.

His hobbies are hunting, fishing, dogs, and questing for new stories. He
tells us: "Story hunts have led me from the Atlantic to the Pacific and
from the Arctic Circle to Mexico City. Stories, like gold, are where you
find them. You may discover one three thousand miles from home or, as in
THE SPELL OF THE WHITE STURGEON, right on your own door step." And he
adds: "I am married to a very beautiful girl and have a teen-age
daughter. Both of them order me around in a shameful fashion, but I can
still boss the dog! We live in Phoenix, Arizona."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Books by Jim Kjelgaard_


BIG RED

REBEL SIEGE

FOREST PATROL

BUCKSKIN BRIGADE

CHIP, THE DAM BUILDER

FIRE HUNTER

IRISH RED

KALAK OF THE ICE

A NOSE FOR TROUBLE

SNOW DOG

TRAILING TROUBLE

WILD TREK

THE EXPLORATIONS OF PERE MARQUETTE

THE SPELL OF THE WHITE STURGEON

OUTLAW RED

THE STORY OF THE MORMONS

CRACKER BARREL TROUBLE SHOOTER

THE LOST WAGON

LION HOUND

TRADING JEFF AND HIS DOG






End of Project Gutenberg's Trading Jeff and his Dog, by James Arthur Kjelgaard

